<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>A Certain Chick’s Special Move!</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>A Certain Chick’s Special Move!</h1>

  <p>Translator: yuNS</p>

  <p>Editors: Adam, BlitzBlast, Cannongerbil, Skythewood, Xenthur</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: Volume 9</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>“Hey, Kazuma, listen—Emperor Zell finally learned a trick.”</p>

  <p>Aqua said, cradling Emperor Zell in her hands.</p>

  <p>After our slightly late lunch, everyone slipped into lazy mode.</p>

  <p>Sitting across from Darkness, I stared at the chessboard on the table—</p>

  <p>“I’ll admit you’re a first-rate performer, but a chick can’t learn tricks. We’re betting next week’s dish duty, so don’t distract me.”</p>

  <p>“Hee-hee. I always lose to you, but today I’ve got a huge advantage! You already used your once-a-day Explosion rule against Megumin! I’m winning this—there’s no way I lose!”</p>

  <p>I ignored Darkness—eyes glittering with excitement—and refocused on the board.</p>

  <p>A little ways off, Megumin—who’d wasted her mana earlier and burned through what little brainpower she had during our match—was sprawled limp on the couch.</p>

  <p>If I’d known this was coming, I wouldn’t have gone all-out against Megumin.</p>

  <p>“Aqua, Kazuma and Darkness seem busy. How about I be your audience?”</p>

  <p>“Oh, are they? Fine, Megumin—I’ll let you be the one to witness Emperor Zell’s magnificent performance.”</p>

  <p>Relieved that the annoying girl was gone, I focused on the board again and tried to figure out how to salvage my losing position.</p>

  <p>“Well, Kazuma? About time you surrendered, right? When I told my father about my losing streak, he—’the kingdom’s treasured sword,‘ as they call him—taught me this foolproof tactic.”</p>

  <p>“For a high-ranking noble, your dad’s pretty childish. He spoils you too much.”</p>

  <p>“Ugh, what do I do? Should I tuck the thief in here…?”</p>

  <p>“W-What!? I figured a little chick couldn’t do much…!”</p>

  <p>“Hmph. You see now, right? He’s not a chick—he’s a dragon. This is nothing for him.”</p>

  <p>…</p>

  <p>“Hey, Aqua—what did he do? Show me.”</p>

  <p>Even though this was a crucial moment in the match, Megumin’s exclamation piqued my curiosity.</p>

  <p>“You just said you didn’t want to watch, so why are you asking now? Emperor Zell’s show is over for today. The next one is next month.”</p>

  <p>“Hey, that’s not fair—just show me a little. I really want to see it.”</p>

  <p>Besides, I wasn’t going to be able to concentrate until I saw it.</p>

  <p>“Hey, Kazuma—if you want to see it, just concede. I saw it too. It was amazing. Honestly, it might even beat Aqua’s usual tricks.”</p>

  <p>“… It’s that amazing?”</p>

  <p>What should I do? When it came to party tricks, I had to admit Aqua was good.</p>

  <p>No—she didn’t have many redeeming qualities besides healing magic and party tricks.</p>

  <p>“Aqua, please, do it again! I’ve never seen anything that amazing.”</p>

  <p>“No, Megumin. That was a performance from the depths of Emperor Zell’s soul—his way of repaying my careful daily training. It’s not something you can just do on command.”</p>

  <p>Aqua and Megumin ignored me—who hadn’t seen a thing—and got all excited on their own.</p>

  <p>“I couldn’t help being impressed after seeing that performance. Kazuma, are you really going to be the only one who hasn’t seen it?”</p>

  <p>Darkness taunted me while I wavered.</p>

  <p>“You’ll regret it if you don’t. Emperor Zell’s lifespan might shorten if he does it too many times. He’s asleep now because it used up all his energy, right?”</p>

  <p>“Right? If Emperor Zell doesn’t want to, I can’t do anything about it… Ah!? Emperor Zell woke up! Are you okay!? You’re doing it!? You want to perform again!?”</p>

  <p>“Ah! Emperor Zell just…! Kazuma, Darkness! Emperor Zell is ready!”</p>

  <p>What did “ready” even mean? It bothered me a lot.</p>

  <p>And Aqua said if I missed this chance, the next one would be next month.</p>

  <p>“Hey, Aqua! Quit messing around and get over here—I want to see. Darkness, time-out.”</p>

  <p>“No. If you leave your seat, you forfeit. How can you walk away before the match is decided? Choose! The trick, or the match!”</p>

  <p>Ugh…</p>

  <p>“All right, Megumin! Watch closely and witness Emperor Zell’s special performance!”</p>

  <p>“If I get to see it again, even I might fall for Emperor Zell!”</p>

  <p>Damn it!</p>

  <p>“Fine, I concede! Aqua, wait—I want to see too!”</p>

  <p>The moment I conceded to Darkness, Aqua and Megumin high-fived.</p>

  <p>“…?”</p>

  <p>“Then watch carefully.”</p>

  <p>Darkness, wearing a proud grin, started putting away the chess pieces. That gave me a bad feeling.</p>

  <p>“Now, behold Emperor Zell’s special trick!”</p>

  <p>Aqua cradled Emperor Zell with a dopey smile, then cupped her hands around him…</p>

  <p>After a moment, Emperor Zell curled into a ball, shut his eyes, and fell asleep.</p>

  <p>“He falls asleep when I do this. Early to bed and early to rise makes a chick healthy, wealthy, and wise, right?”</p>

  <p>Early to eat and early to poop makes him wealthy?</p>

  <p>And anyway, cupping your hands over a chick until it falls asleep isn’t a “performance”—it’s just what chicks do.</p>

  <p>… Wait a second.</p>

  <p>Megumin had challenged me out of nowhere earlier today, and Aqua had lured me in with Emperor Zell’s so-called performance. Was this all Darkness’s…?</p>

  <p>“Here, Aqua. Megumin. As agreed. But Father really is despicable… Using something off the chessboard to force the opponent to concede…”</p>

  <p>“Hey! Wait a minute!!”</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
