<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
 <title>A Heartfelt Gift</title>
</head>

<body>

 <h1>A Heartfelt Gift</h1>

 <p>Gamers special short story</p>

 <p>Translator: Cannongerbil</p>

 <p>Editors: Ulti</p>

 <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

 <p>Occurrence: After Volume 15</p>

 <hr/>

 <p>“Kazuma, Kazuma—we’ve known each other for quite a while now, haven’t we?”</p>

 <p>Aqua, who’d been playing with Chomusuke in the yard, came over with a grin.</p>

 <p>“… So who do you need to apologize to this time?”</p>

 <p>“Hold on—why do you immediately assume I’ve done something wrong?”</p>

 <p>Isn’t it obvious?</p>

 <p>“The only time you call me by name like that is when you’re in trouble, bored out of your mind, or trying to squeeze more spending money out of me.”</p>

 <p>“Tch. I hate that you’re right, but I can’t even argue… Just listen this time. You’ll be so happy you’ll hand over more spending money yourself.”</p>

 <p>…</p>

 <p>“Didn’t I already give you some yesterday?”</p>

 <p>“It’s already gone. I don’t get it—my purse was full yesterday morning, and now it’s completely empty after one night of drinking.”</p>

 <p>I turned to Chomusuke and dangled a cattail in front of her.</p>

 <p>“Over here! Over here! What you swiped at just now was only an afterimage… Oh, you saw through my feint. You’re pretty impressive…”</p>

 <p>“Kazuma, please, listen! I’m begging you! The guy at the shop was selling something incredible today! I could tell at a glance! You’ll love it too!”</p>

 <p></p>

 <p>Aqua wouldn’t stop whining after that, so I had no choice but to go take a look.</p>

 <p>“What kind of incredible item is it? I’ve run into plenty of weird and amazing stuff since coming here, so I’m pretty used to it by now.”</p>

 <p>“Heh-heh. Sounds like you’re finally starting to appreciate the world of art. Why don’t you stop being a useless adventurer and become an art connoisseur instead?”</p>

 <p>“Just who exactly are you calling useless?”</p>

 <p>While I bickered with Aqua, I noticed something odd about the town.</p>

 <p>Everyone on the streets looked upbeat, and lively music drifted through town.</p>

 <p>“Is there some sort of special occasion today?”</p>

 <p>“This is why NEETs are hopeless. It’s a holiday. The whole town’s basically celebrating, so of course it’s rowdy. Look at how cheerful everyone is.”</p>

 <p>So there are holidays in this world too?</p>

 <p>“So, what holiday is it?”</p>

 <p>“I think it’s the princess’s birthday.”</p>

 <p>Ah.</p>

 <p>“Hey, isn’t that Iris? This is bad, I haven’t prepared a birthday gift for her!”</p>

 <p>I immediately started to panic, but Aqua just said,</p>

 <p>“What are you saying? Just where do you think we are heading to right now, Kazuma?”</p>

 <p>The place we are heading to right now…</p>

 <p>“That shop with the amazing item! Aqua, you’re not completely useless after all!”</p>

 <p>“Hey, hold on—haven’t I been pretty useful lately!?”</p>

 <p></p>

 <p>The place Aqua led me to was…</p>

 <p>“… What exactly is this?”</p>

 <p>“It’s just as you see, Kazuma. This is a store that sells rocks. These rocks have been gathered from the four corners of the world by the storekeeper.”</p>

 <p>No matter how you looked at it, this is definitely a fraud.</p>

 <p>“Did you get conned again!? These rocks all look like they were picked up from the local riverbed!”</p>

 <p>“Of course someone with no eye for art would say that, but keep it up and you’re just begging to be chewed out. Hey, shopkeeper—why don’t you show him how amazing this rock is?”</p>

 <p>The man behind the counter glanced at me and picked up a pebble.</p>

 <p>“This is why amateurs are… Take a good look at it from this angle.”</p>

 <p>When I did as he asked, the pebble looked strangely familiar…</p>

 <p>“Winter Shogun? Hey, isn’t this the Winter Shogun?”</p>

 <p>“Yes, indeed. Isn’t it amazing? To think a naturally weathered stone could form an image like that…”</p>

 <p>Seriously? You’re saying that this rock was found in such a shape…</p>

 <p>“… No, no—wait. It’s impressive and all, but what am I supposed to do with it? More importantly, I’m here to buy Iris a present—”</p>

 <p>“What are you talking about? A curious girl like her would love a gift like this. She’s probably tired of precious jewels and ornate treasures by now.”</p>

 <p>…That did make a certain amount of sense, and I could see Iris being genuinely happy with a gift like this.</p>

 <p>“Excuse me, I’d like to buy this pebble.”</p>

 <p>“Sure thing. That’ll be eight thousand eris.”</p>

 <p>It’s just a rock—how could you charge that much for it? The words were on the tip of my tongue, but I swallowed them as I reached for my wallet…</p>

 <p>“Hey, wait a minute, I wanted that pebble.”</p>

 <p>Just then, Aqua interrupted.</p>

 <p>“Aren’t you broke? Besides, instead of something expensive, Iris would probably be happier with an oddity or a handmade piece of art. Even if it’s cheap, as long as it comes from the heart, she’d be happy, so—”</p>

 <p>“I saw it first! Please, Kazuma—I can let you have the Winter Shogun, but at least buy this one for me!”</p>

 <p>“That’ll be twenty thousand eris.”</p>

 <p>Are you kidding me?</p>

 <p>“Please, I really like it! I’ll take good care of it! Look—from this angle, it kind of looks like Chomusuke.”</p>

 <p>“Seriously… Oh, fine, I’ll buy it for you.”</p>

 <p>She did help me pick a gift for Iris today, so I figured I could indulge her just this once.</p>

 <p>“Thank you, Kazuma!”</p>

 <p>Watching Aqua hug the rock to her chest, I thought, well, I guess this isn’t so bad…</p>

 <p>“I’ll probably forget about this in an hour, so I wanted to thank you before I do.”</p>

 <p>“Give that rock back. I’m going to go get a refund.”</p>

 <p>And thus, I spent the rest of the morning chasing after Aqua.</p>

 <hr/>

</body>

</html>
