<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
 <title>A Night Out with the Wrong Crowd</title>
</head>

<body>

 <h1>A Night Out with the Wrong Crowd</h1>

 <p>Translator: Cannongerbil</p>

 <p>Editors: Striker</p>

 <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

 <p>Occurrence: Volume 17</p>

 <hr/>

 <p>“Thank you for attending my daughter’s birthday party. She’s always looked up to you, Lady Dustiness, so I’m sure this was the best party she’s ever had.”</p>

 <p>The host of tonight’s party, the marquis, said as he saw us to the door.</p>

 <p>“It was my pleasure. I’m jealous—you have such a beautiful, adorable young lady. If I ever get the chance…”</p>

 <p>I smiled at the young girl peeking out from behind the marquis and gave her a wave.</p>

 <p>After saying my farewells, I headed for the carriage—</p>

 <p>“Lady Dustiness, are you heading back already? The party had to end early because the marquis’s daughter is so young, but isn’t it a little early for us adults to turn in?”</p>

 <p>“If you have time, perhaps you’d like to join us for a few drinks. Of course, it wouldn’t just be men—there will be noble ladies as well. Everyone would be delighted if you came.”</p>

 <p>Just as I was about to step into the carriage, a nobleman a little older than me called out.</p>

 <p>Behind him were several other noblemen watching me with fond smiles.</p>

 <p>“…No, I’m sorry, but if I’m late getting back, everyone at home will worry. Perhaps another time—”</p>

 <p>“I-Is that so? N-no, I’m the one holding you up. Please forgive me!”</p>

 <p>“The Dustiness family handles much of the realm’s internal security, so of course you’re busy! Please, don’t worry about it!”</p>

 <p>When I replied with a smile, the two men blushed bright red… and let out small sighs.</p>

 <p>Socializing is important, but I could already tell how the rest of the night would go: smiling nobles surrounding me and showering me with praise.</p>

 <p>I’d had enough of playing the role of “proper noblewoman” for one night.</p>

 <p>With one last goodbye, I climbed into the carriage—</p>

 <p></p>

 <p>“…I’m home…”</p>

 <p>“Waaaaah! Darkness!”</p>

 <p>The moment I opened the mansion’s front door, Aqua came rushing at me in tears.</p>

 <p>I could guess why she was crying, but…</p>

 <p>“What’s with this the moment I walk in? Did Kazuma scold you again?”</p>

 <p>“No, listen! Kazuma’s awful! He snuck off to that new pub—the one we promised we’d visit together—without me!”</p>

 <p>“Hey, I didn’t sneak anywhere! First of all, we never promised we’d go together! And if a new pub opens in town, of course I’m going to check it out!”</p>

 <p>As it turned out, it was for a much pettier reason than I’d expected.</p>

 <p>“…Then why don’t you two just go together? We could invite Megumin too…”</p>

 <p>“Hah!? Even if you take me, you won’t let me drink anyway, right? So I don’t really… Fine, I’m coming. I’m coming for the food.”</p>

 <p>Megumin grumbled as she headed off to get ready.</p>

 <p>“…Huh? It’s a little late to ask, but isn’t that a really expensive dress? Did you go to some noble’s party or something?”</p>

 <p>It really was a little late, but Kazuma asked anyway.</p>

 <p>“Hey, Darkness, you didn’t ditch us to go to some glamorous noble party and hog all the good food for yourself, did you!? Did you bring anything back? You brought a box stuffed full of delicious food, right!?”</p>

 <p>“S-Stop it, Aqua. Don’t pull on my dress! This kind of outfit slips off really easily! And how would I do that at a birthday party for a noble girl!? Kazuma, Megumin—say something to her!”</p>

 <p>“Aqua, do your best! If you make her flash us, I’ll treat you to something expensive at the pub!”</p>

 <p>“This man is the worst! Darkness, hurry up and change! Then we’ll go out for a night on the town!”</p>

 <p>Saying that, Megumin started wrestling with Aqua.</p>

 <p>I’d already eaten, so I’d planned to spend the rest of the night at home…</p>

 <p>However—</p>

 <p>“We eat together at the Adventurers’ Guild all the time, but it’s rare for us to spend a night out like this. Hey, Aqua—why don’t you teach this young lady some games? Then when you stumble home in the morning after being out all night, Darkness might be a little gentler when she lectures you.”</p>

 <p>“Oh, that’s an interesting idea. Very well! I, Aqua—the famous bar-hopping goddess of this town—will teach you how to hold your liquor at this new pub!”</p>

 <p>“It’s not fair if everyone but me gets to drink! I’m drinking tonight too!”</p>

 <p>Still—</p>

 <p>“…All right. I’ll change—give me a moment.”</p>

 <p>“Oh, and dress modestly tonight. If you show up in your usual, uh, erotic outfit, some drunk guy is going to come over and start trying to buy you.”</p>

 <p>“W-What do you mean, my usual erotic outfit!? I dress modestly!”</p>

 <p>When I shot back, all three of them froze and looked at me like I was speaking another language.</p>

 <p>Yeah. Tonight—</p>

 <p>“I’m tired of being formal and playing the noblewoman! Let’s cut loose tonight!”</p>

 <p>Leaving the three of them looking even more dumbfounded, I went to my room in high spirits and changed quickly—</p>

 <hr/>

</body>

</html>
