<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>A Once in a While Goddess-Like Activity</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>A Once in a While Goddess-Like Activity</h1>

  <p>Volume 3 Short Story</p>

  <p>Translator: yuNS</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: Volume 3</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>“Hey, I’ve been meaning to ask you this for a while, Kazuma. You do understand I’m actually a goddess, right?” Aqua asked out of the blue.</p>

  <p>As hard as it is to believe, she really is a goddess.</p>

  <p>Unfortunately. Of course I understand. It’s because I understand that…</p>

  <p>“You’re getting put to good use, aren’t you?”</p>

  <p>“You don’t understand at all! Not even a little!” Aqua snapped, playing a role roughly equivalent to a tea bag in the town’s water treatment plant.</p>

  <p>“Hey, haven’t I been treated especially badly lately? ’The purification facilities are broken, so until they’re fixed we have to purify the water some other way.‘ Fine, I get that—but why do I have to soak in freezing water in the middle of winter!?”</p>

  <p>“You were the one who took this job, saying you wanted to do something goddess-like once in a while, weren’t you?”</p>

  <p>I immediately responded to Aqua’s complaints.</p>

  <p>“I did! I said I wanted to! I’m using my goddess powers right now, but this is completely different from what I had in mind!” Aqua shouted as she slapped the water’s surface.</p>

  <p>Aqua had a lot of free time, and she’d said she wanted to perform a miracle once in a while—like a goddess should—in order to win more followers for her cult.</p>

  <p>“Doesn’t this count as a miracle? The townsfolk would be in real trouble if they couldn’t use water until the plant is repaired. What’s wrong with putting a rare talent of yours to good use?”</p>

  <p>“Yeah, I get it! But I wanted a flashier miracle! If there are no spectators, I won’t get any new followers!”</p>

  <p>How selfish of her…</p>

  <p>“Didn’t you just do a job this morning providing water for the fields, since it hasn’t rained in a while? Is solving a water shortage not goddess-like enough? If anything, I think people don’t worship you because you’re so materialistic. And as for spectators—the facility supervisor is watching, isn’t he? That should be enough.”</p>

  <p>“No matter how you spin it, having the supervisor as the only spectator to a goddess’s miracle is nowhere near good enough! And even though I’m solving a water crisis, all I’m really doing is sitting in a tub of water!”</p>

  <p>While we argued back and forth, the purification was nearly complete.</p>

  <p>This goddess on a dung heap really is the goddess of water, I guess. As long as it’s water-related, she can do the job properly.</p>

  <p>“Once we’re done here, we’ll think of something flashy. I’ll help with your little unauthorized activities a bit, so hang in there a little longer, okay?”</p>

  <p>“Well, if you say so. All right, let’s get this over with. Also, if you’re going to help me, Kazuma, I’ve got a great idea.”</p>

  <p>As she said that, Aqua cupped water in her hands, then flicked it at me with a dramatic flourish.</p>

  <p>“Hey, stop! That water’s freezing! And what exactly are you planning to make me do?”</p>

  <p>“I want you to die pathetically on a busy street. While your corpse is being eaten by wild animals or whatever, I’ll make a dramatic entrance and resurrect you on the spot! Then once you revive, I want you to die again without warning. Normally you can only be brought back once with resurrection magic. If I resurrect the same person multiple times, the onlookers will finally realize what an incredible goddess I am!”</p>

  <p>“You want me to die just so people will treat you like a goddess!? No way you’re a goddess!”</p>

  <p>While we were talking, the purification finally completed.</p>

  <p>Aqua, dripping wet, climbed out and shook herself like a dog to dry off.</p>

  <p>“Ugh, it’s freezing! Here—take this towel and dry off like a normal person, would you?”</p>

  <p>I handed a thick towel to Aqua, who had surprisingly finished her work today without causing any trouble.</p>

  <p>The old man supervising the facility watched our exchange with a smile and called out—</p>

  <p>“Thank you very much. You two have been a great help. This should be enough clean water to last until the repairs are complete. And I must say—it’s impressive you were able to purify so much in such a short time.”</p>

  <p>“Well, I won’t deny it—but don’t get complacent about managing the facility just because of this!”</p>

  <p>Aqua started to get carried away after hearing praise from the old man.</p>

  <p>“I’m truly ashamed it came to this. The facility was still functioning this morning. But since it hasn’t rained lately, we opened the floodgates for routine cleaning, and suddenly the river feeding the facility began to flood. We closed the gates in a panic, and that caused parts of the system to malfunction.”</p>

  <p>Hearing his explanation, Aqua quickly averted her eyes—obviously startled.</p>

  <p>“Hey. You know something about this, don’t you? You had something to do with that flood, didn’t you?”</p>

  <p>“No I don’t.”</p>

  <p>I pointed my hand at Aqua, who desperately evaded my gaze.</p>

  <p>“If you won’t tell the truth, I’ll cast Freeze on you while you’re still drenched.”</p>

  <p>“You remember how I was asked to provide water for the fields this morning? The farmers praised me, I got giddy, and I got carried away and summoned way too much water. I’m very sorry.” Aqua apologized and promptly lowered her head.</p>

  <p>I could only let out a long sigh.</p>

  <p>“Hey, don’t apologize to me—apologize to him.”</p>

  <p>“I’m so sorry! I got carried away, please forgive me!”</p>

  <p>“Um… No, it’s all right. We were wrong to let our guard down just because it hadn’t rained in a while.”</p>

  <p>The kind-hearted old man apologized as well.</p>

  <p>As I dragged Aqua along—</p>

  <p>“Jeez, do you have some kind of condition that makes it impossible for you to do one good deed without screwing something up somewhere else? Come on—we’re going to the river. If we leave the flood alone, it could cause even more damage.”</p>

  <p>“Sniff… I just wanted to be praised with ’A goddess is incredible’ once in a while…! I just wanted to be a household name…!”</p>

  <p>As I pulled the bawling Aqua along, a voice called from behind us—</p>

  <p>“We’re always grateful for your willingness to take on these jobs and help with our water problems.”</p>

  <p>I couldn’t hear clearly from that distance, but I had a feeling it was the old man’s gentle voice, offering heartfelt thanks.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
