<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Aqua’s Water Trade</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Aqua’s Water Trade</h1>

  <p>Volume 1 Special Short Story</p>

  <p>Translator: yuNS</p>

  <p>Editors: Keel the Swift, Deus-ex-Machina</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: Volume 1</p>

  <p>[Context: ’Water Trade’ (lit. mizushoubai水商売) is also a traditional euphemism for nighttime entertainment in Japan, such as hostess clubs, bars, cabarets. It’s also a euphemism for risky businesses and ventures, especially those with high turnover.]</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>“Kazuma, Kazuma, look at this!” Aqua said, shoving something into my hands.</p>

  <p>“What the heck is this? Some sort of magic potion?”</p>

  <p>What she handed me was an ordinary-looking bottle filled with some kind of liquid.</p>

  <p>“Well, you could call it that. This is super-effective, precious holy water I made with half a day’s work! I’m thinking of selling it for 10,000 eris. Does that sound reasonable?”</p>

  <p>So she wasn’t messing around yesterday when she jammed her hand into the fountain and churned the water around?</p>

  <p>“The kids can’t play in this heat if you hog the fountain. You’re bothering everyone.”</p>

  <p>“It’s our duty as adults to teach children the cruel reality and unfairness of the world. Anyway, want a bottle? I’ll give you a discount, Kazuma.”</p>

  <p>I held the bottle up to the sunlight and squinted at it.</p>

  <p>“So this is… your broth? What does it even do?”</p>

  <p>“Don’t compare a goddess like me to dried fish. As for the effects… well, it’s basically purified fountain water, so you can drink it when you’re thirsty?”</p>

  <p>“-”</p>

  <p>“Hey, stop! Don’t throw it away! It has other uses too! You can water crops with it, clean silverware, and if you pour it into an ant nest, you can even wipe them all out!”</p>

  <p>How is this different from plain water?</p>

  <p>“Come to think of it, they don’t have mineral water in this world, do they? If we call it ’Aqua’s Tasty Water’ or something and advertise it as ’Water safe for infants,‘ we might be able to sell it… huh. But 10,000 eris a bottle is way too much. Let’s lower the price.”</p>

  <p>“I don’t really want to undercut a goddess’s mineral water, but fine—I guess we don’t have a choice. Anyway, help me sell it. You don’t have any special powers, but your tongue is sharp, right? It’s a good chance to put one of your few merits to work.”</p>

  <p>“Hey, are you trying to start a fight or sell water? Pick one!”</p>

  <p>That said, I ended up helping once she offered me a cut of the profits.</p>

  <p>We set up shop at a restaurant in town. If it was a classy place where customers were picky about taste, maybe they’d go for mineral water.</p>

  <p>…Or so we thought.</p>

  <p>“It’s not selling…” Aqua said dejectedly, lugging around a bin full of bottled water.</p>

  <p>Just as I started to worry—pure, magic-made water should’ve been a hit—</p>

  <p>“Ah! God of water!”</p>

  <p>Aqua flinched at the words “god of water” and immediately scanned the room.</p>

  <p>I was surprised there were people in this town who would call Aqua that—</p>

  <p>However, it turns out that was not the case.</p>

  <p>“Oh, god of water, thank you for your hard work as always! Would you be so kind as to give me some water?”</p>

  <p>“Sure, I don’t mind! Allow me to show you my power—Create Water!”</p>

  <p>The voices came from a waitress and a middle-aged man dressed in a magician’s robes.</p>

  <p>The man pointed his hand at a bottle and filled it up using magic.</p>

  <p>So this was the guy they called the “god of water.”</p>

  <p>After the waitress thanked him, he calmly walked away.</p>

  <p>Aqua and I approached the waitress.</p>

  <p>“Excuse me. Who is that ’god of water’ you called out to earlier?”</p>

  <p>“Oh my, you don’t know? He’s a former magician who gave up on adventuring. He can really only use basic magic. These days, he dresses like that and hands out drinking water as a hobby. Water made with magic is very pure, so it’s genuinely helpful. Nobody knows his name, so we all call him the ’god of water.’”</p>

  <p>The moment she finished, Aqua suddenly sprinted off.</p>

  <p>“Hey, you! Who gave you permission to sell water here!? And who do you think you are, letting people call you the ’god of water’ without my permission!? Apologize this instant! Apologize to the goddess of water right now! And don’t forget to charge money when you hand out water—and bring it as a donation to the goddess of water’s Axis cult!”</p>

  <p>Technically, it wasn’t wrong to call it selling water, but her wording and tone made it sound like the “other” kind of water trade—and like she was a thug demanding protection money for a racket.</p>

  <p>“What…! Has the dark organization finally made a move to seize my power!? …But you do have a point. You could absolutely make this a business.”</p>

  <p>“Fine, make it a business—but don’t forget your donations, okay? Otherwise, you might receive divine punishment from the wonderful and beautiful goddess of water.”</p>

  <p>After a brief dispute, Aqua sat down by the roadside with her arms around her knees and started talking business.</p>

  <p>This girl… casually discussing business with a middle-aged magician cosplayer…</p>

  <p>…was apparently a goddess.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
