<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
 <title>Master Aqua</title>
</head>

<body>

 <h1>Master Aqua</h1>

 <p>From the Digital Edition</p>

 <p>Translator: yuNS</p>

 <p>Editors: Keel the Swift, Deus-ex-Machina</p>

 <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

 <p>Occurrence: Volume 1</p>

 <hr/>

 <p>“Ma’am! You’re the one they call Master Aqua, right!?”</p>

 <p>Aqua and I were taking a walk through town when a well-dressed gentleman approached us.</p>

 <p>…Master Aqua?</p>

 <p>“Hm? You’re that guy from that whatsit household, right? What a coincidence.”</p>

 <p>“W-Whatsit household… Master Aqua, may I ask where you’re headed today? My master keeps asking, ’Has Master Aqua’s next work been unveiled?‘ He’s been eagerly awaiting your next piece…”</p>

 <p>The man who’d called Aqua “ma’am” seemed to be the butler of some well-known household.</p>

 <p>“That just makes it more annoying. I only drew something as an apology for the piece I broke. No matter how much you pay me, I don’t really feel like drawing.”</p>

 <p>“Please, I beg you! Your work has been well received among the other nobles as well… And if you want a reward, there are many other options…”</p>

 <p>“H-Hey, Aqua, what the hell happened? I don’t get it. Explain.”</p>

 <p>Totally lost, I turned to Aqua.</p>

 <p>“A while back, I was teaching the kids in the neighborhood how to play baseball, and we were just messing around, you know? Then I hit a super comeback, out-of-the-park ball. It broke the window of some fancy mansion and destroyed the artwork that was hanging in the hallway.”</p>

 <p>“Then, since she didn’t have the money to compensate for the damage, she offered to draw a replacement… The result was more than enough. In fact, it was so wonderful that it has become my master’s family heirloom…”</p>

 <p>Amazing!</p>

 <p>…Or is it?</p>

 <p>Honestly, I didn’t even know what to say…</p>

 <p>Wait.</p>

 <p>Being able to scribble something that makes nobles gush in admiration is impressive, but the reason the original got destroyed was…</p>

 <p>You little…</p>

 <p>“Anyway, I’m not an artist, so I won’t take any money. I’ve got somewhere to be—I’ve got to go mess with a certain shop that never has any customers—so I have to turn you down.”</p>

 <p>“W-Why… Master Aqua, I won’t give up…!”</p>

 <p>The gentleman left, dejected.</p>

 <p>“If you’re that good at drawing, why not take him up on it?”</p>

 <p>“No way. I’m a goddess, you know? An archpriest, you know? I have pride in what I do. Not that a shut-in who’s never worked a day in their life would understand!”</p>

 <p>As I grabbed Aqua and started plotting how to make her beg for mercy, someone suddenly showed up and intervened.</p>

 <p>“Master! What’s going on!? Who is this man? Is he some kind of hoodlum!?”</p>

 <p>“Ah, you’re my disciple! This man is an evil presence trying to harm me! Beat him down! Use that power you’re so proud of!”</p>

 <p>“Leave it to me, master!”</p>

 <p>“Hey, wait—…!”</p>

 <p>In response to Aqua’s disciple suddenly attacking me, I used Drain Touch to immobilize him.</p>

 <p>Breathing hard, I looked down at the man who couldn’t move after I’d drained his magic power.</p>

 <p>“W-What the hell is his deal!? And what’s with ’master’!? Explain!”</p>

 <p>“He’s my self-proclaimed disciple. I think he’s a sculptor or something. When I was carving the Axis Cult holy symbol into Wiz’s shop door to kill time, he went, ’What amazing skill!’ and kind of decided he was my disciple.”</p>

 <p>“J-Just knock it off already. Wiz can’t even get into her shop if you do that, right? Anyway, you’ve been running around doing all sorts of things when I’m not looking, huh. And you’re not a dog or a cat, so just admit it already—you like this stuff, don’t you? You’d be better off being honest with yourself.”</p>

 <p>“You’re the one who should admit it! Recognize me for who I am! Who do you think I am, anyway!? Tell me—who am I, and what’s my profession?”</p>

 <p>“The airhead artist Aqua?”</p>

 <p>“It’s Lady Aqua the archpriest! The heavens are telling me your face needs a taste of this holy fist!”</p>

 <p>As Aqua lunged at me—</p>

 <p>A girl who was running by us suddenly turned around.</p>

 <p>She slipped from the momentum and scraped up her arms and knees.</p>

 <p>“Uuu… waaaaaahhhh—!”</p>

 <p>And just like that, the girl started sobbing like a certain crybaby I knew.</p>

 <p>Aqua leaned toward the girl—</p>

 <p>“Heal!…There, it doesn’t hurt anymore, right? Now get up. Don’t cry—it’s a waste of how cute you are.”</p>

 <p>Now that was an archpriest-like thing to do…</p>

 <p>“Sniff… hic…”</p>

 <p>“Jeez, I guess it can’t be helped. I’ll show you something neat, okay? Now, inside the handkerchief is—whoa…”</p>

 <p>She didn’t look like she was going to stop crying anytime soon, but she went quiet the moment she saw Aqua’s “art.”</p>

 <p>…Since Aqua was doing something archpriest-like for once, I figured I’d back her up.</p>

 <p>I turned away from Aqua and the girl and headed toward a stand where an old man was selling roasted skewers…</p>

 <p>“Look, there are so many thin-winged violet-red butterflies! Just so you know, it’s a heavily protected monster species…!”</p>

 <p>“You’re amazing, big sis! Amazing! Amazing… I-It’s super-duper… a-amazing….”</p>

 <p>I whipped around, but there was already a huge crowd of onlookers.</p>

 <p>“Hey, miss, show me one more time!”</p>

 <p>“M-Ma’am, I want to see it one more time…!”</p>

 <p>“One more time!” “One more time!”</p>

 <p>“This is so annoying. You can crowd around all you want, but it still bothers me. I’m a priest—so it really bothers me when you ask me for art!”</p>

 <p>You really need a class change.</p>

 <hr/>

</body>

</html>
