<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>A Real Magic Item!</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>A Real Magic Item!</h1>

  <p>Translator: Cannongerbil</p>

  <p>Editors: Xenthur</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: Volume 13</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>On a certain afternoon.</p>

  <p>I had some free time, so I stopped by the Adventurers’ Guild looking for something to do—and for some reason, a crowd had gathered.</p>

  <p>“…? Hey, what’s all this fuss about?”</p>

  <p>“Oh, isn’t that Kazuma? It’s magic items. A magic-item peddler showed up.”</p>

  <p>A familiar adventurer told me, and I reacted instantly at the words “magic item.”</p>

  <p>“There’s got to be some kind of catch, right? Like it explodes when you use it, or it hits everything indiscriminately, or something.”</p>

  <p>“These aren’t the kind of items Wiz sells, so you don’t have to worry about that. You’re loaded—why not take a look? Your companions are already over there picking stuff out.”</p>

  <p>Sure enough, when I looked over, my companions were already browsing and grabbing whatever caught their eye.</p>

  <p>“Oh, Kazuma, you came at the perfect time. Look at this! It’s a potion that increases my magic power for a short while! No downsides! I’d like to borrow some money!”</p>

  <p>“Kazuma, Kazuma, this is a cleaning tool that spins once you feed it mana. I’d really like you to buy it. Cleaning the toilets would be much easier. Oh—and it seems like there are no downsides.”</p>

  <p>I didn’t know why they kept emphasizing “no downsides,” but these at least seemed usable.</p>

  <p>That said, boosting Megumin’s magic power even further would only cause problems, and Aqua would probably break her toy in record time.</p>

  <p>And, standing next to them, Darkness was looking at something in her hand with a troubled expression.</p>

  <p>“A bandana that increases dexterity, huh… Should I buy it? No, wait—then my attacks would hit. But on the other hand, we’ve been facing a lot of strong enemies lately…”</p>

  <p>“Right. Buy it. Buy it right now. Actually, I’ll pay—so put it on.”</p>

  <p>After finding an item that’s perfect for Darkness, I immediately made to purchase it.</p>

  <p>“Wha—Kazuma! No, wait, it has, you know, downsides…”</p>

  <p>“It doesn’t have any! Just hand it over—I’ll pay!”</p>

  <p>“Ah!”</p>

  <p>After snatching the bandana out of Darkness’s hands, I looked over the rest of the wares to see if anything else was worth buying.</p>

  <p>They’d said it was a peddler, so I’d expected useless junk, but I’d already found something genuinely convenient.</p>

  <p>It’d be perfect if there were a staff that let you use other spells, or an item that boosted intelligence.</p>

  <p>“That’s not fair, Kazuma! Buy my item too! Or at least lend me some money!”</p>

  <p>“I don’t want to give this back, so buy it for me! This magic item will be fun! If I put water on it and make it spin, it’ll spray everywhere. If I use it right, I can even make rainbows as a party trick!”</p>

  <p>“Shut up! You don’t need that! Megumin, even if I bought you that potion, you’d drink it immediately instead of saving it for a boss! And that thing isn’t a toy, Aqua!”</p>

  <p>Pushing the two clingers aside, my eyes fell on something interesting.</p>

  <p>“What’s this? Paralyze stone?”</p>

  <p>“Oh, you have a good eye, dear customer. That’s an excellent item with a chance to paralyze whatever it hits. That said, there is a downside…”</p>

  <p>The old man peddler explained as I looked over the stone in my hand.</p>

  <p>“The paralysis chance is low, and it’s rare, so there’s only one. On top of that, it’s expensive, and not the kind of item you’d want to stake your life on in the heat of battle… If the paralysis fails, the enemy can pick it up and use it right back on you. Anyone can use it, so you’d be the one at risk of getting paralyzed.”</p>

  <p>…Yeah. Handing your opponent a convenient item doesn’t help you much.</p>

  <p>If there’s no guarantee that the effect will go off, it’d be like handing over a weapon to your opponent…</p>

  <p>Just then, I realized something.</p>

  <p>“Old man, I’ll take it.”</p>

  <p>“Huh? Are you sure? I mean, as a merchant, I’d be grateful if you’d take it off my hands, but…”</p>

  <p>After handing over the money, I turned to Megumin with the stone in my hand.</p>

  <p>“Hey, Megumin, want to be the first to test my new technique?”</p>

  <p>“Oh? As long as it won’t hurt me, sure.”</p>

  <p>As expected of the Crimson Demons. They understood the appeal of a new technique.</p>

  <p>When Megumin nodded, I threw the paralyze stone at her.</p>

  <p>The instant it hit, I used the skill I’d prepared.</p>

  <p>“Steal!”</p>

  <p>“Ouch!”</p>

  <p>Just as I’d planned, what ended up in my hand was…</p>

  <p>“Hey.”</p>

  <p>“That’s not what it looks like—hear me out.”</p>

  <p>With Megumin’s underwear in my hand, I immediately launched into a denial.</p>

  <p>“My new technique is supposed to retrieve the paralyze stone after it hits the target. In other words, I can throw paralyze stones over and over. But Steal has this weird habit of going after the more valuable item… so it’s your fault for wearing expensive underwear!”</p>

  <p>“I don’t wear expensive underwear! Also—I can’t move!”</p>

  <p>That was when I noticed the atmosphere around us had gone weird.</p>

  <p>“Y-You came up with an incredible technique for paralyzing someone and stealing their underwear…”</p>

  <p>“You devil… No, comparing you to one is an insult to devils…”</p>

  <p>Oh crap. I think I just raised another Scumzuma flag.</p>

  <p>“Say, Kazuma… How much would I have to pay to experience that new technique?”</p>

  <p>Darkness looked at the paralyze stone in my hand with an envious expression.</p>

  <p>“I won’t use it on you no matter how much you pay! Old man, I want a refund! Aqua, don’t pretend you don’t know me—help me talk him into it!”</p>

  <p>Today, my reputation took another major hit.</p>

  <p>Afterward, I gave Darkness the bandana that increased dexterity, but of course, she still couldn’t hit anything.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
