<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Dust Spinoff 3 Short Story: A Serious Day</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Dust Spinoff 3 Short Story: A Serious Day</h1>

  <p>Translator: Cannongerbil</p>

  <p>Editors: Ulti, Xenthur</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Dust Spinoff Volume 3</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>“I think I’ll go on an adventure.”</p>

  <p>I announced it while we were eating at the guild.</p>

  <p>My companions froze for a moment, then went right back to eating after giving me the briefest glance.</p>

  <p>I’m not so easily discouraged. I stared at the ceiling, grabbed the hilt of my sword, and launched into a passionate speech.</p>

  <p>“I don’t have any money. Normally, I’d laze around and brainstorm ways to make it the easy way. But I recently had a revelation. If I want money, all I have to do is work for it.”</p>

  <p>I thought that was pretty good, personally.</p>

  <p>A little worried by their silence, I lowered my gaze… only to find all three of them quietly eating.</p>

  <p>“…Hey, aren’t you going to say something? ’Well said,‘ or ’I’m actually moved,’ or anything like that? You can praise me, you know.”</p>

  <p>In response, Lynn said, exasperated,</p>

  <p>“Aren’t you just stating the obvious?”</p>

  <p>“Let me guess—you saw a woman taking care of a rain-soaked cat, fell for her, and decided you needed to improve your standing so you can woo her. Something that cliché, right?”</p>

  <p>“Then just work seriously from now on.”</p>

  <p>These guys… They saw right through my perfect strategy!</p>

  <p>I tried using one of those “raise affection” tips I’d read in a book at the general store, but it didn’t work at all.</p>

  <p>Dammit. It’s because you stock useless books like that your store is always empty. That old man should take his work more seriously.</p>

  <p>“All right, then—let’s go on an adventure.”</p>

  <p>“Why are you deciding that by yourself? Before we talk about going anywhere, do we even have a quest?”</p>

  <p>“Yeah. I found a quest earlier that really caught my eye, so I grabbed it.”</p>

  <p>With that, I enthusiastically slapped the request form onto the table.</p>

  <p>After reading it, my companions looked up at me with dubious expressions.</p>

  <p>“What’s with this quest?”</p>

  <p>“It’s exactly what it says. Capture a giant toad alive. With our party, it shouldn’t be that hard.”</p>

  <p>“Sure, it’s doable, but… Dust, what is anyone supposed to do with a live giant toad?”</p>

  <p>Keith tapped the request form with a finger, looking fed up.</p>

  <p>Taylor didn’t say anything, but he nodded along. He seemed to agree.</p>

  <p>“That got me curious too, so I asked around about who posted it. Turns out the request came from a certain noble lady.”</p>

  <p>“A noble lady? What would someone like that want with a live giant toad?”</p>

  <p>“Maybe she wants to try commoner food? But if that were the case, why request it alive?”</p>

  <p>“Hmm… Maybe she’s picky about ingredient freshness?”</p>

  <p>My companions started tossing ideas around.</p>

  <p>I was just as confused at first, but everything clicked the moment the guild gave me the requestor’s name.</p>

  <p>“Yeah, you’d think so, right? But what if I told you that noble lady was Lalatina?”</p>

  <p>“Ah…”</p>

  <p>“Why would Darkness…” x2</p>

  <p>Lynn got it instantly, but Taylor and Keith still looked confused.</p>

  <p>Come to think of it, Lynn had experienced Darkness’s… peculiarities firsthand, but Taylor and Keith hadn’t seen her in action yet.</p>

  <p>“Well, there are a lot of uses for one.”</p>

  <p>I wouldn’t have minded enlightening them, but Taylor really did look up to Darkness as a fellow crusader. There was no urgent need to shatter his image of her.</p>

  <p>Plenty of adventurers still didn’t know her true nature. They’d probably sink into despair if they found out.</p>

  <p>“Darkness probably won’t stiff us on the pay, but before we go out and grab one… wouldn’t it be better to talk to Kazuma first?”</p>

  <p>“As long as we get paid, what’s the problem? Why do we need to run everything by my friend?”</p>

  <p>“The part where she wants a live monster brought to her gives me a really bad feeling.”</p>

  <p>Actually, yeah. I hadn’t thought too hard about it because she’s a pervert, but… what was she planning to do once she had a live giant toad?</p>

  <p>The last time I saw her fight, she threw off her armor and charged straight into a horde of goblins…</p>

  <p>“…Yeah, maybe we’d better run this by Kazuma.”</p>

  <p>“Right? It’s not like we lose anything if it’s nothing. Kazuma’s the leader of that party, after all.”</p>

  <p>“All right. We’ll head over to Kazuma’s place after lunch.”</p>

  <p>When we met up with Kazuma, it sounded like this was the first he’d heard of the request, so he called Darkness out and gave her a lecture.</p>

  <p>“It’s not because I’m jealous that you guys are the only ones who get eaten! I just want to get all slimy with that saliva…”</p>

  <p>She tried to keep a straight face while coming up with a bunch of incomprehensible excuses, but Kazuma’s scolding only seemed to excite her more.</p>

  <p>She was absolutely beyond help.</p>

  <p>The quest got pulled, but we still received a cancellation fee. I guess taking life seriously once in a while isn’t so bad.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
