<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Axel’s Number One…</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Axel’s Number One…</h1>

  <p>From Toranoana’s First-Print Limited Edition</p>

  <p>Translator: yuNS</p>

  <p>Editors: Keel the Swift, Deus-ex-Machina</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 10</p>

  <p>[TL Note: There are some implied jokes here, which are explained in the ’Extra Notes’ section after this]</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>Having slept well past noon, I dragged myself down the stairs, turning my head sluggishly. Then—</p>

  <p>“Oh, depraved shNEET! Eat my crimson fist and walk a righteous path in your next life!”</p>

  <p>[TL Note: shNEET = shitty neet (クソニート)]</p>

  <p>Megumin hid her right eye with one hand in an overdramatic chuunibyou pose, snapped her fingers with the other, and pointed at me.</p>

  <p>“… I don’t know why you’re looking for a fight, but since you did it, I might as well take you on.”</p>

  <p>“Owowowowowowow! Please stop, I apologize, so please stop!”</p>

  <p>As I twisted the finger that was pointed at me, Megumin pleaded for mercy.</p>

  <p>“So, what was that supposed to mean? If you cursed at me without any particular reason, I’ll use drain touch to absorb your magic power so you can’t do your ’daily explosion’, alright?”</p>

  <p>“P-P-P-P-, Please stop! Y-, Your thoughts are truly fearsome to behold. I think you’re even more devilish than Vanir!”</p>

  <p>I didn’t really get why being unable to use magic for a day was such a big deal, but it clearly rattled Megumin.</p>

  <p>As I released my hold on her finger, Megumin cautiously took several steps back.</p>

  <p>“Actually, the Crimson Demons who live near Axel get together sometimes to talk about all kinds of things.”</p>

  <p>“…But I can’t think of any Crimson Demons who’ve left the village besides you and Yunyun. An annoying clan like yours should stay in the isolated ’Crimson Demon Village’ as much as possible.”</p>

  <p>“Whose clan are you calling annoying!? If we go for an interview with a mercenary or knight group, we’ll immediately be hired! We are Crimson Demons, who are in great demand no matter what adventurer guild we go to!”</p>

  <p>In any case, the Crimson Demons were supposed to be the strongest group of magicians in this world, but looking at this girl, I had my doubts.</p>

  <p>“So, what does being a part of the so-called ’Crimson Demons’ have to do with cursing me?”</p>

  <p>“At our next gathering, the Crimson Demons nearby are holding a showdown to decide who has the coolest signature phrase.”</p>

  <p>…Were the Crimson Demons really the strongest magic users in the world?</p>

  <p>When I looked amazed, Megumin noticed—</p>

  <p>“What’s that look supposed to mean!? For Crimson Demons, choosing a signature phrase is important. In a way, it’s like your final words or a life motto. Something like that.”</p>

  <p>“So was ’oh depraved shNEET’ meant to be your lifetime quote or something?”</p>

  <p>“It’s a misunderstanding. That was just me merely stating my thoughts when I saw your depraved and pathetic appearance after waking up.”</p>

  <p>When Megumin protested, I seized her hand and activated ’Drain Touch’.</p>

  <p>“W-W-W-W-WAIT! I apologize for what I said, so take anything but my magic power!”</p>

  <p> </p>

  <p>—One week later.</p>

  <p>“…Hey, why do I have to go with you?”</p>

  <p>For some reason, I was dragged along to the signature phrase showdown between Crimson Demons.</p>

  <p>“Why not? You have free time anyway. Didn’t you spend all of yesterday plucking the thorns out of Aqua’s cactus one by one with tweezers? Today I’ll show you my cool side. I’ll make sure the title of ’Axel’s number-one phrase user’ ends up with me.”</p>

  <p>“There was a reason, you know? I didn’t just kill time—I got to see Aqua, who snuck and drank the high-class neroid I treated carefully, bawling her eyes out.”</p>

  <p>“After that, Aqua kept spamming ’Heal’ on the cactus. When I checked it this morning, it had grown several times bigger. A grown cactus is crafty—get too close and it’ll shoot thorns at you.”</p>

  <p>Seriously?</p>

  <p>—Though it’s absurd that plants are sentient in this world, apparently they can get angry too.</p>

  <p>“Hm? Kazuma? H- Hey Megumin, why did you bring Kazuma with you!?”</p>

  <p>The girl annoyed by my presence was Yunyun, the one person here with any common sense.</p>

  <p>Was this the supposed meeting place?</p>

  <p>From the park overrun by Crimson Demons, Yunyun noticed me and called out.</p>

  <p>“Well met. I thought this man didn’t understand the importance of signature phrases for us Crimson Demons, so I brought him along by force.”</p>

  <p>“Stop! It’s embarrassing! I don’t really get the importance of it either, so don’t drag an ordinary person like Kazuma into this!”</p>

  <p>Noticing the commotion and seeing me—someone they hadn’t met before—the other Crimson Demons seemed eager to introduce themselves.</p>

  <p>I heard murmurs of ’Dragged along? Joining at the last minute?‘ and the like.</p>

  <p>“Geez, you’re too loud, Yunyun. I never said Kazuma wasn't going to join, did I?”</p>

  <p>“AHHH I’m so sorry! Kazuma, I’m so sorry—it’s my fault!”</p>

  <p>Behind Yunyun—who apologized on the verge of tears—the Crimson Demons trembled in excitement as they looked at me. I felt a seed of wanting to meet their expectations take root.</p>

  <p>Signature phrase… A cool signature phrase, huh.</p>

  <p> </p>

  <p>“-Well then, it’s unanimously decided that Kazuma Satou, who joined at the last minute, has the coolest signature phrase!”</p>

  <p>“Why is Kazuma number one here!? Isn’t this weird? Hey, isn’t this weird!? There’s no way he came up with such cool signature phrases in that rapid ’bang bang bang bang’ way!”</p>

  <p>“The craze that sweeps through you lot is nothing compared to mine. There’s no way the chuunibyou-tinted phrases passed down by my ancestors could ever lose.”</p>

  <p>“One more time! Say those things you just said again, please!”</p>

  <p> </p>

  <p>I became Axel’s number-one household name.</p>

  <p> </p>

  <hr/>

  <p>Extra Note(s):</p>

  <p>— For those that might not know, household name stands for ’a person or thing that is well known by the public.’</p>

  <p>— A minor play on words: When Kazuma says ’sickness that spreads through you guys…‘, the word for ’sickness’ (病) is the ’byou’ (病), in ’chuunibyou’ 中二病, which stands for eighth-grade syndrome.</p>

  <p>— For the punchline, remember that they did all that in the public park. Kazuma shouted all those signature phrases in public… which is why he became a ’household name’.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
