<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Crusader of the Sleeping Forest</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Crusader of the Sleeping Forest</h1>

  <p>Volume 3 Special Short Story</p>

  <p>Translator: yuNS</p>

  <p>Editors: Keel the Swift, Deus-ex-Machina</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 3</p>

  <p>[TL Note: A reference to Sleeping Beauty. In Japan, the tale is known as “Beauty of the Sleeping Forest”.]</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>“Kazuma, I want you to hit me.”</p>

  <p>The resident pervert in my party asked for this in broad daylight, right in the middle of the crowded guild hall.</p>

  <p>…I couldn’t find the words. I put on the most serious expression I could manage and gave Darkness a light slap on the cheek.</p>

  <p>“Pff—!? W-What are you doing!? Who said to hit me there!?”</p>

  <p>Darkness, her face faintly red, grabbed my outstretched hand and started chewing me out.</p>

  <p>You tell me to hit you, then complain about where I hit you?</p>

  <p>“What do you want from me? And just so you know, I’ve got things to do, so I’m not indulging your depraved hobbies, okay? This afternoon, a shop I like is holding a rock-paper-scissors tournament for regulars. I heard the winner gets a ‘special course’ ticket. I haven’t lost a single rock-paper-scissors match in my life, so I’m definitely entering.”</p>

  <p>“A shop you like…? A ‘special course’ ticket…? Since when did a place like that exist? What kind of shop is it? Is this why you sometimes don’t come home on weekends?”</p>

  <p>“N-No! It’s not like that! Those nights out are just me drinking with my guy friends, you know!? More importantly, why did you tell me to hit you!?”</p>

  <p>As I desperately tried to change the subject, Darkness suddenly snapped back to reality.</p>

  <p>“Right—this isn’t the time for this! Kazuma, come with me. There’s something I need to tell you.”</p>

  <p>“…A siren?”</p>

  <p>“Yeah. There’s a stray siren living in the forest near town. As far as I can tell, we’re the only ones who know about her.”</p>

  <p>Darkness dragged me to a corner of the guild and whispered the details in my ear.</p>

  <p>“By ‘siren,’ you mean the kind of monster that sings to charm people?”</p>

  <p>“Yeah. The kind that lures you in and puts you to sleep. They’re supposed to be sea spirits that only live in the ocean, but…”</p>

  <p>She said that when she went into the forest early this morning to train, she heard a beautiful song.</p>

  <p>She followed it and found a female monster whose lower half was that of a bird.</p>

  <p>“So what did you do after that?”</p>

  <p>“After that, while I was listening, I started getting unbearably sleepy. When I woke up, I was alone in the middle of the forest. A lone woman, asleep and defenseless in a deserted forest… If something had gone wrong, I might have fallen into the hands of some pervert…!”</p>

  <p>Ignoring the flushed pervert squirming in front of me, I tried to think this through.</p>

  <p>Why would a sea-spirit appear on land?</p>

  <p>“If we leave her alone, won’t someone eventually go subjugate her? Why not report it to the guild receptionist?”</p>

  <p>“Sirens are pure spirits. They can harm humans, but they’re friendly at heart. It would be easy to just report this… but if she simply got lost, then I want to do what I can to help her.”</p>

  <p>Darkness had quite the serious expression. What happened to the regrettable pervert a moment ago?</p>

  <p>“It should be just ahead. I heard the singing around here, but…”</p>

  <p>Darkness led me into the forest, and we walked deeper in.</p>

  <p>I wanted that special course ticket no matter what, so I needed to wrap this up before the event started, but then—</p>

  <p>“…I hear singing.”</p>

  <p>“Ah, that’s the voice.”</p>

  <p>Drawn in by the voice, we found a bird-legged woman singing with her eyes closed.</p>

  <p>It was beautiful—yet somehow lonely.</p>

  <p>“It’s like something called her here… There might be some kind of being nearby that attracts water spirits and sea spirits… If so, the siren might’ve been drawn in because of it…”</p>

  <p>Darkness started to mutter—hey. Wait.</p>

  <p>“…I think we know someone who can talk to that siren.”</p>

  <p>Actually, this might be that girl’s fault in the first place.</p>

  <p>“Really!? Okay. I’ll stay here and keep watch. Kazuma, hurry back to town and…”</p>

  <p>Right after she said that, Darkness’s eyelids started to droop…</p>

  <p>“Hey, get up! You’ll get yourself killed if you fall asleep here!”</p>

  <p>“H-Huh!? Ah, s-sorry…! But falling asleep doesn’t mean I’ll die, so you don’t have to slap me that hard… Actually, no—maybe you should hit me a little harder…!”</p>

  <p>After forcing Darkness awake, that drowsiness hit me too—</p>

  <p>“Wake up! Come on, Kazuma, wake up!”</p>

  <p>“OWW-!”</p>

  <p>Darkness punched me in the face to force me awake… That damn brute—!</p>

  <p>So we went back and forth like that for a while… until I suddenly remembered why we were even here and came to my senses.</p>

  <p>This wasn’t the time for that. I needed to call in the real culprit behind this mess—Aqua. And that was when—</p>

  <p>“…? What’s this… earplugs?”</p>

  <p>At some point, Darkness had approached the siren and pulled them out of her ears.</p>

  <p>…A spirit that charms people with song wearing earplugs. Surreal.</p>

  <p>The siren, who had her earplugs pulled out, immediately opened her eyes.</p>

  <p>When the siren realized we were there, her eyes went wide and she sucked in a sharp breath—!</p>

  <p>…When I opened my eyes, everything around me was tinted a dark red.</p>

  <p>Looks like we took a full-volume song to the face when she got startled.</p>

  <p>Beside me, Darkness and the siren were still sleeping.</p>

  <p>With the siren still out cold, now was the perfect time to go get Aqua…</p>

  <p>…And as I thought that, I realized it was already evening.</p>

  <p>Huh… What about the rock-paper-scissors tournament at the succubus shop…?</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
