<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Darkness’ Pet Search</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Darkness’ Pet Search</h1>

  <p>Volume 1 Special Short Story</p>

  <p>Translator: yuNS</p>

  <p>Editors: Keel the Swift, Deus-ex-Machina</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: Volume 1</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>“And that’s how it is. A simple blow from a monster isn’t the only way to find ecstasy. Monsters that poison their prey and finish them off slowly give me that thrilling, cornered feeling—and honestly, it makes me tremble with excitement! Do you understand!?”</p>

  <p>“No, and I’d really rather not.”</p>

  <p>While Darkness and I were having lunch at the tavern, I got dragged into a lecture I couldn’t even begin to understand.</p>

  <p>Was there really no way to trade her in for a different party member?</p>

  <p>As I was thinking that, the tavern door flew open with a loud bang, and a man who looked like a magician came charging in.</p>

  <p>“Excuse me! Emergency quest! I’ve got an emergency quest!”</p>

  <p>At his shout, the tavern fell silent.</p>

  <p>“A magical creature called a roper has escaped confinement! I’m requesting the help of all male adventurers present!”</p>

  <p>Even in his panic, his voice carried.</p>

  <p>“A roper? Darkness, what’s a roper? And why is he only asking for male adventurers?” I whispered to Darkness across the table.</p>

  <p>“Ropers only attack women. They use their tentacles to do… unspeakable things. They’re the public enemy of all women. Supposedly they were created by some perverted magician.”</p>

  <p>“I see. That explains it. But he only asked for male adventurers, so why are you getting excited?”</p>

  <p>“Because I’m going too!”</p>

  <p>I could admire her initiative, but…</p>

  <p>“Aren’t you a little under-equipped to face something like that? At least go grab your armor so it doesn’t, you know, assault you.”</p>

  <p>“My equipment is being repaired right now.”</p>

  <p>“No, wait—we haven’t fought anything strong enough to break your—”</p>

  <p>“It’s being repaired right now!”</p>

  <p>Th-This girl…!</p>

  <p>“That said, this isn’t an enemy I can handle alone, so I want you to come with me, Kazuma.”</p>

  <p>“Sure, I don’t mind, but…”</p>

  <p>And so, I went with Darkness—who was excited for reasons I did not want to understand—to search for the roper.</p>

  <p>“Ropers definitely hide in dark places. They assault women somewhere secluded, then drag them off into the shadows to do all sorts of unspeakable things.”</p>

  <p>“Oh? That wasn’t on the info sheet the client gave us. You’re awfully knowledgeable.”</p>

  <p>Was that why she took the quest—because she knew so much about ropers?</p>

  <p>Maybe she hadn’t accepted this job solely to satisfy her twisted desires.</p>

  <p>She was problematic in a lot of ways, but when it came time to protect the townsfolk, she could be surprisingly serious—</p>

  <p>“No, I just <em>hope</em> ropers are like that! For example—what if it’s hiding in the shadows over there? Someone as lightly dressed as I am would definitely fall victim to some hideous acts! Oh, what should I do, Kazuma!? What’s the right thing to do!?”</p>

  <p>“Are you asking what you should do after I kick you out of the party?”</p>

  <p>My words went in one ear and out the other. Darkness’s face was bright red as she squirmed with excitement.</p>

  <p>She just kept going.</p>

  <p>“No matter how much I resist, it’ll be futile as the roper pushes me down with its vile strength! In the end, my arms and legs will be bound by its filthy tentacles, and it’ll do whatever it wants to my helpless body! Aahh~! If it comes to that, I don’t want you getting dragged into it, Kazuma! Just leave me behind and run!”</p>

  <p>“But this paper says ropers are among the weakest monsters. I’m pretty sure even I could take one down. Also, if you didn’t want help in the first place, why did you drag me along!?”</p>

  <p>“I couldn’t bring it home by myself, could I?”</p>

  <p>“Did you just say you want to bring the roper home?”</p>

  <p>“No I didn’t! Ah—something moved over there! Hurry, Kazuma, or someone will beat us to it. We have to protect it!”</p>

  <p>“You <em>did</em> just say ‘protect it,’ didn’t you!?”</p>

  <p>In the end, we combed the town for the roper until dawn, but we couldn’t find it anywhere.</p>

  <p>“Hey… Let’s call it and go back. Aqua and Megumin are probably done with today’s explosion stroll by now and are waiting at the tavern. I’m starving.”</p>

  <p>“You’ve got a point. Let’s give up for today. We’ll look again tomorrow.”</p>

  <p>“…You were seriously planning on taking it in?”</p>

  <p>“N-No! Not for the lewd reasons you’re imagining. I heard the secretions from Jester’s pedipalps can be used as a beauty serum… or something.”</p>

  <p>Jester. So she’d already named the roper she planned to adopt…</p>

  <p>As I stared at Darkness—who was desperately trying to justify making a roper her pet—we headed back toward the guild—</p>

  <p>“Megumin, your Explosion magic is as amazing as ever! That weird, squirming tentacle monster got completely trounced! Oh—hey, what are you two doing? Heading back to the guild?”</p>

  <p>“Hmph! Before my strongest magic, not even the Demon King could— Huh? You two are heading back already?”</p>

  <p>We ran into Aqua and Megumin by chance. Aqua had Megumin on her back, and they looked like they’d just finished their explosion stroll.</p>

  <p>“Hey, did you just say ‘weird, squirming tentacle monster’?”</p>

  <p>The two of them exchanged a look.</p>

  <p>“There was a tentacle monster wandering around, so we obliterated it with Explosion magic!”</p>

  <p>“Hey, Darkness, pull yourself together! Some magician out there will make another one!”</p>

  <p>Darkness sank to all fours, shoulders trembling in despair. I put a hand on her shoulder and tried to comfort her—</p>

  <p>“This feeling… This crushing sense of loss, like I’ve lost someone dear to me… Is this what getting cuckolded feels like—what everyone says is all the rage lately!?”</p>

  <p>So declared the hopeless pervert, face flushed as she trembled with deranged excitement—still on all fours.</p>

  <p>Seeing her like this made me want to stomp on her.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
