<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>For Iris’s Sake</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>For Iris’s Sake</h1>

  <p>From Toranoana’s First-Print Limited Edition</p>

  <p>Translator: yuNS</p>

  <p>Editors: Keel the Swift, Deus-ex-Machina</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: Volume 11</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>How did it come to this?</p>

  <p>“Then let’s begin, Lady Dustiness. Even if you are my opponent… No, it is <em>because</em> you are my opponent that I will not hold back!”</p>

  <p>“Agreed, Lady Symphonia. Symphonia of the sword. Dustiness of the shield. Together, we are the two noble families that have protected this kingdom through the years. Let us decide which of us is superior, here and now!”</p>

  <p>We were currently at the capital’s training grounds.</p>

  <p>Iris looked on in excitement as Claire and Darkness, her bodyguards and tutors, were facing one another with swords in hand.</p>

  <p>There’s a reason for this, of course.</p>

  <p>It had started while we were all enjoying afternoon tea.</p>

  <p>After hearing about Iris’ heroics, I had praised her with all my heart, but-</p>

  <p> </p>

  <p>“-Iris was incredible back then. No, seriously, it was amazing! I think my little sister is the strongest in the world!”</p>

  <p>“Big Brother, you only ever talk like that when it’s about me, but you shouldn’t forget this nation is full of talented people. In particular, Claire and Lalatina are my most trusted retainers.”</p>

  <p>Claire and Darkness became bashful upon hearing Iris’ praise.</p>

  <p>I’d heard about Claire’s skill, but I was far more familiar with Darkness’s regrettable tendencies.</p>

  <p>Maybe she noticed my doubtful look. Darkness—whose eyes wandered as usual—jumped in with an unexpected comment, as if to shut me up.</p>

  <p>“Even so, I fear I cannot win against Kazuma.”</p>

  <p>Her hurried flattery was, in a sense, much like hush money.</p>

  <p>“Now that you mention it, Kazuma would give me trouble as well. That said, I hesitate to call the way he fights ’combat’.”</p>

  <p>Claire, who had once had her underwear stripped by me, agreed with a strained laugh.</p>

  <p>“Big Brother, you had a match with Lalatina too?”</p>

  <p>“Yeah, I did. I mean, I’m the guy who beat Mitsurigi, the hero with the magic sword, so it’s only natural they’d lose to me, right? There’s nothing for them to be embarrassed about.”</p>

  <p>That may have been a bit cocky of me, but Darkness and Claire remained silent.</p>

  <p>“You’re full of mysteries, Big Brother. Your level isn’t particularly high and your stats are all so low, but for some reason you still win in the end. I don’t know anyone as miraculous as you.”</p>

  <p>“That’s right. Exactly. Listen, Iris—there are plenty of things in this world that can’t be measured by numbers alone. What’s truly important is this.” I thumped a fist against my chest.</p>

  <p>“Pectorals!?”</p>

  <p>“The heart.”</p>

  <p>I immediately shot back at Iris, who was a natural airhead every once in a while.</p>

  <p>“Oh. By the way, Big Brother, who was trickier for you to handle—Lalatina or Claire?” Iris asked with keen interest.</p>

  <p>For her to be curious about this sort of thing, she really was a militant princess.</p>

  <p>“Hmm, if I had to choose, it’d probably be Darkness. She’s really tough and has a ton of stamina. Metaphorically speaking, she’s basically a barbarian.”</p>

  <p>“Might I suggest a change of wording perhaps? Or would you prefer to experience my ’toughness’ firsthand?”</p>

  <p>I ignored Darkness, who aggressively clenched her fists.</p>

  <p>“As for Claire, she admitted defeat after I stripped her panties off, so I can’t really say much about her. Anyway, haven’t you two fought before?”</p>

  <p>Darkness and Claire turned to glance at one another.</p>

  <p>Seeing this, Iris explained.</p>

  <p>“Lalatina lives in Axel, so there hasn’t been a chance… But still, a part of me wants to see the two of you fight.”</p>

  <p>Upon hearing Iris’ wish, her two loyal retainers stood up from their seats-</p>

  <p> </p>

  <p>“-KIEEEEEEHHH-!”</p>

  <p>Claire screamed like some kind of bird in heat and struck Darkness’ armor.</p>

  <p>Judging from the scratch on her armor, Darkness got a good sense of Claire’s offensive power. Then Darkness abandoned all defense and swung her greatsword in a wide arc with all her might.</p>

  <p>Perhaps out of coincidence, the sword grazed the tip of Claire’s nose, and her face turned pale.</p>

  <p>“Lady Dustiness, do you understand this is a spar, not a deathmatch!?”</p>

  <p>“And what of it? There’s no need to worry. We have Aqua, who can use ’Resurrection’ if something happens, so don’t hold back! Come at me like you mean it! Now, let us continue without delay! I look forward to a much sharper strike than that! Show me the true strength of the House of Swords!”</p>

  <p>“What has come over you, Lady Dustiness!? What happened to your usual good sense!?”</p>

  <p>The two continued to battle feverishly even amidst their exchange of words.</p>

  <p>“Big Brother, in your eyes, who do you think is better?”</p>

  <p>“My personal opinion? Given how well I know her, I’d probably give it to Darkness. On second thought, Claire isn’t bad either, but in some ways she just doesn’t measure up to Darkness.”</p>

  <p>Maybe she overheard us, because a happy smile crept onto Darkness’ face.</p>

  <p>“Sorry about this, Lady Symphonia, but it seems he has quite a bit of faith in me. Regrettably, that means it’s time for me to stop playing around. Let’s finish this.”</p>

  <p>Ignoring Claire’s puzzlement, Darkness threw her sword aside, postured to take the fight seriously…</p>

  <p>“You certainly seem to think highly of Lalatina, Big Brother. Is the difference between the two really that big?” Iris asked as I watched the desperate battle reach its climax.</p>

  <p>“First off, Claire is way too slender, if you know what I mean. Personally, I prefer Darkness’ figure. Second, long hair scores high points in my book. No… short hair isn’t exactly bad either, you know? But honestly, Darkness has a better body and a bigger chest, so it’s only fair she’d win in the end.”</p>

  <p>“Big Brother, what are you talking about!? I meant who you thought was stronger, not who you like better!”</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
