<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Make a Show of Gratitude Every Now and Then!</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Make a Show of Gratitude Every Now and Then!</h1>

  <p>Amazon special bonus story</p>

  <p>Translator: Skythewood</p>

  <p>Editors: Adam, Cannongerbil, Xenthur</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: Volume 7</p>

  <hr/>

  <p><i>“Oh! It might be summer, but that outfit is still way too sexy. Are you trying to seduce me?”</i></p>

  <p>The first thing I said after getting back to the mansion made Darkness—who was walking around in a skimpy outfit—freeze in place.</p>

  <p>“H-Hey, what are you saying? The moment you get back, you say something like that…! It’s too hot, so it can’t be helped—I’m not trying to seduce you!”</p>

  <p><i>“You say that, but you’re a little excited about it, aren’t you?”</i></p>

  <p>“What? What’s wrong with you today?”</p>

  <p>Megumin, who was playing a board game with Aqua, gaped at our exchange.</p>

  <p>“What is this, all of a sudden? Kazuma might harass people a lot, but that’s way too direct.”</p>

  <p>I glanced at Megumin.</p>

  <p><i>“Megumin’s in a one-piece today, huh? With how tomboyish she is, she should just commit and go naked.”</i></p>

  <p>“What’s wrong with you!? Why are you suddenly saying stuff like that?”</p>

  <p>Megumin panicked, while Aqua sat across from her with her arms crossed and nodded along.</p>

  <p>No, actually…</p>

  <p>“A magic item that reveals your thoughts?” they said in unison.</p>

  <p><i>That’s right. Wiz asked me to test out this new magic item. When Wiz—wearing a skimpy summer dress—looked up at me with those pleading eyes, I happily agreed.</i></p>

  <p>So yeah.</p>

  <p>Right now, I was wearing the hat Wiz had handed me.</p>

  <p>“I-I wasn’t asking why you agreed… No, wait, that was your thoughts leaking out. But why would Wiz make something like that…?”</p>

  <p><i>“She developed it to make it possible to communicate with monsters and animals. Apparently she wanted to test it on livestock—she mentioned taking it to a rancher she knows.”</i></p>

  <p>“Why didn’t you stop her? Wouldn’t that make things difficult for the rancher?”</p>

  <p>I looked at Aqua, who hadn’t moved at all and was completely focused on the board in front of her.</p>

  <p>I took off the hat and plopped it onto her head.</p>

  <p><i>“What should I do? If I move this piece here, Megumin, with her twisted personality, will definitely target it. What do I do? Betting a side dish on one match was a mistake. If this keeps up, I’ll be stuck eating plain rice with just condiments tonight. I should’ve settled it with rock-paper-scissors. All I’d have to do is secretly cast blessing magic to win.”</i></p>

  <p>The moment Aqua’s voice started coming from the top of her head, Megumin pounced on her.</p>

  <p>“Hey, what are you doing, Megumin!? The board’s a mess now! That match doesn’t count, right? We don’t have time for another game, so let’s settle this with rock-paper-scissors!!”</p>

  <p><i>“That startled me, but this is my chance! Did the heat get to her? It’s great that Megumin is as impatient as Darkness!”</i></p>

  <p>“So that’s what you think of me!? I’m an Archwizard known for being cool and collected—I’m nothing like Darkness!!”</p>

  <p>“Wait, I’m not that impatient…! And what do you two usually think about me?”</p>

  <p>I gently lifted the hat off Aqua and put it back on myself.</p>

  <p><i>“That’s how the magic item works… Oh, the big-boobs girl is still staring at me suspiciously. Fine—then you wear it.”</i></p>

  <p>“B-Big-boobs girl!? Is that what you call me in your head!? S-Stop! I don’t want to wear that thing—wear it yourself if you want!”</p>

  <p><i>“Tch. I was going to ask how many times a day you masturbate once you put it on.”</i></p>

  <p>“A-An aristocratic lady wouldn’t do something as shameless as that! Ah, stop! Really, I’m not lying! I’m not lying, so don’t force the hat on me!!”</p>

  <p>Seeing Darkness’s reaction, Megumin sighed.</p>

  <p>“Honestly… it’d be better if this magic item never gets developed. Kazuma, take it off. Just tell Wiz what I said.”</p>

  <p><i>“Fine, fine. Whatever. I got showered with icy glares from women on the way home, too. I’m not going anywhere near that place for a while.”</i></p>

  <p>“What were you thinking the whole way here? Were there any police patrolling?”</p>

  <p>I took off the hat, stretched lazily, and walked to the kitchen.</p>

  <p>“By the way, Aqua, that rock-paper-scissors just now doesn’t count. You actually cast blessing in secret…? Don’t get so bold with your cheating. Let’s play a proper match!”</p>

  <p>“H-How do you know!? No, you’re bluffing. Where’s your proof? Go on, show me proof that I secretly used magic!”</p>

  <p>“Give it up, Aqua. Tonight you’re eating plain rice with condiments.”</p>

  <p>“Why-?”</p>

  <p>Listening to the commotion in the living room, I set the hat on top of a wine bottle on the table and started making dinner…</p>

  <p><i>“Thank you for tending my grave and telling me stories about your adventures all this time.”</i></p>

  <p>The sudden voice made me turn toward the hat in surprise.</p>

  <p>“What was that…? My imagination? No, I heard it pretty clearly…”</p>

  <p>Just then, Aqua’s wailing came from the living room.</p>

  <p>“Kazuma, Kazuma—! Those two are so mean! Hey, make extra dinner tonight!”</p>

  <p>…They were exhausting.</p>

  <p>I made an extra dish—</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
