<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Noble Style</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Noble Style</h1>

  <p>Translator: Cannongerbil</p>

  <p>Editors: Ulti</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 15</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>I was at a fully booked high-end restaurant, wearing an unfamiliar tuxedo, and staring at the spread of dishes laid out before me.</p>

  <p>In a place like this, the proper table etiquette is…</p>

  <p>“I’m supposed to start with the outermost utensils, right?”</p>

  <p>“Kazuma, how many years has it been since you heard that? Nobles are extremely sensitive to changing trends. These days, you start with the innermost ones.”</p>

  <p>Darkness, seated across from me, said in an astonished tone.</p>

  <p>Seriously? Even table manners are different in this world?</p>

  <p>Still, Darkness did start from the innermost utensils.</p>

  <p>She’s a noble lady, so I’m sure she knows what she’s doing.</p>

  <p>“I see. Different country, different culture. It’s only natural the etiquette would be different. But I know this one. This is a finger bowl, right? It’s for washing your fingertips.”</p>

  <p>Saying that, I dipped my fingers into the bowl of water placed next to the table.</p>

  <p>“That’s for washing your face. This restaurant caters to nobles, you know? Both parties wash their faces with it before eating. It’s meant to signify that neither side has any ulterior motives as they dine together without wearing any makeup.”</p>

  <p>“…You’re kidding, right? There’s no towel—wouldn’t your face just be dripping?”</p>

  <p>“What do you think that napkin is for? Why did you put it on your lap in the first place?”</p>

  <p>Seriously? Isn’t that what it’s for—keeping food off your clothes?</p>

  <p>“Today’s just practice, so it’s fine. But make sure you memorize the etiquette for tomorrow, or you’ll embarrass me. All right—first, the soup…”</p>

  <p>Seeing me caught off balance, Darkness began with a smile-</p>

  <p> </p>

  <p>—A lady from some noble house requested to meet with me.</p>

  <p>These days, I’m famous enough to show up in the papers.</p>

  <p>Just like when Iris wanted to meet me, a similar request had landed on Darkness’s desk.</p>

  <p>Yes—a proper young lady.</p>

  <p>“A noble lady, huh… I’m sure she’s the type who couldn’t lift anything heavier than a pair of chopsticks, fawns over small animals the moment she sets eyes on one, and talks to the flowers in the garden…”</p>

  <p>“Anyone who fits that description perfectly would be a very strange person. What do you think noble ladies are? Nobles might look gentle on the surface, but every last one of them has a heart as black as coal.”</p>

  <p>Darkness, who is incidentally also one of those noble ladies, said with a sigh.</p>

  <p>“Cut it out! This dinner might finally restore my image of noble ladies after you dragged it into the mud. At least let me get excited before we meet her.”</p>

  <p>“Why don’t you explain exactly why I’m the one who ruined your image of noble ladies?”</p>

  <p>Darkness gave me a glare, and I avoided her gaze.</p>

  <p>“Noble lady really does have a nice ring to it. Haa… Every noble I’ve met so far has been loaded with weird quirks, so I shouldn’t get my hopes up, but it’d be nice if she were a gentle young lady…”</p>

  <p>I wistfully voiced my hopes about the noble lady, and Darkness bit on her lip as though she wanted to say something.</p>

  <p>Eventually, she spoke up.</p>

  <p>“…Say, Kazuma, it’s fine to look forward to it, but do you know the etiquette for dealing with nobles? Nobles are very sensitive to trends, you know. Are you familiar with the latest ones?”</p>

  <p> </p>

  <p>—And so, Darkness offered to coach me. The next day…</p>

  <p>“So you’re Mr. Satou, yes? I’ve heard many great things about you… I’m glad to finally meet you in person. I hope we can have an enjoyable conversation today.”</p>

  <p>“The honor is mine. If you’d like, I’d be happy to chat.”</p>

  <p>After visiting that high-end restaurant yesterday, I greeted the noble lady under the watch of Darkness.</p>

  <p>“Now, pardon me-”</p>

  <p>“Eh?”</p>

  <p>When I washed my face in the finger-bowl-like item, the noble lady let out a soft gasp.</p>

  <p>As I wiped my face with my napkin, I noticed that the patrons around us started staring at me.</p>

  <p>“…A-As expected of an adventurer, you certainly are… bold… Ah, the soup is here. The soup at this restaurant is quite rich…”</p>

  <p>I grabbed the soup bowl with both hands and noisily downed it in one go.</p>

  <p>I thought it was a little weird, but Darkness said that making noise while eating is how you show it’s delicious.</p>

  <p>There are similar customs back on Earth too, so I suppose it’s not unthinkable for it to be the case here.</p>

  <p>…Just then, I noticed something was off.</p>

  <p>The lady facing me was blushing bright red and trembling with embarrassment.</p>

  <p>And next to her, Darkness was blushing too and shivering…</p>

  <p>“You lied to me, didn’t you! Don’t you dare laugh!”</p>

  <p> </p>

  <p>—After getting chased out of the restaurant, I gave Darkness an earful on the way back home.</p>

  <p>“Do you have any idea how much I was looking forward to this? She’s a noble lady, you know? A proper young lady! How could you ruin it…!”</p>

  <p>“Yes, yes, I’m sorry. Still, you should be a little thankful to me. That lady really does have an ulterior motive. Her family loves luxury and spends gold like water, and is rumored to be on the verge of bankruptcy. Right as those rumors started spreading, she suddenly wanted to meet with you. Still… <i>Pfft</i>.”</p>

  <p>She’s been constantly breaking out into giggling fits ever since we left the restaurant.</p>

  <p>“How long are you going to laugh!? I know that girl was only getting close to me because of my money, but you still shouldn’t have toyed with me like that! I even missed out on the food…”</p>

  <p>“<i>Pfft</i>… Sorry, but her family does have quite a bit of pull. I couldn’t refuse her request without a good reason. I’ll buy some high-quality ingredients and cook you a meal when we get back, as an apology.”</p>

  <p>… High-quality ingredients, huh…</p>

  <p>No, no, I’m not so easily swayed…</p>

  <p>“And afterward… well, we can have a meal together. I’m a noble lady too, you know? Can you forgive me if I do that?”</p>

  <p>Darkness said with a bright smile-</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
