<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Regarding the Princess’ Adolescence</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Regarding the Princess’ Adolescence</h1>

  <p>From Gamers First-Print Limited Edition</p>

  <p>Translator: yuNS</p>

  <p>Editors: Keel the Swift, Deus-ex-Machina</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 10</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>The great nation of Casinos, Elroad.</p>

  <p>For one reason or another, despite being Iris’s bodyguards, we were staying at a rather classy hotel.</p>

  <p>And in Iris’s room, tucked away in a corner of the hotel—</p>

  <p>“—So Lalatina and I have known each other since I was little. I admired her like an older sister, and I often followed behind her.”</p>

  <p>From a chair nearby, I listened in as Iris and Darkness talked about the past. They were in their pajamas, sitting on the bed.</p>

  <p>“Back when you were still living at the castle, right? How nostalgic… When Iris still couldn’t speak well, I remember giving you piggyback rides to get you to stop crying…”</p>

  <p>Saying that, Darkness showed a nostalgic, warm smile.</p>

  <p>“Just curious, but ’horsey horsey’ has nothing to do with your special interests right?”</p>

  <p>“Don’t drag Iris into your filthy imagination! Even I had a time when I was pure and innocent, okay!?”</p>

  <p>Darkness shot me a vexed look.</p>

  <p>“…A-Are you saying you’re not pure or innocent anymore…?”</p>

  <p>At my offhand reply, Darkness grabbed me by the collar.</p>

  <p>“I’m saying I’m not pure or innocent anymore because of the things you’ve done to me! You’ve seen me naked. I’ve washed your back. You’ve tied me up, and now that I think about it, you even took off my underwear…!”</p>

  <p>“EEEEHHHHH!?”</p>

  <p>As Darkness angrily rattled on, Iris reflexively cried out.</p>

  <p>“Seriously, what are you blurting out in front of Iris all of a sudden? Honestly, like always, your mere existence is terrible for a child’s education.”</p>

  <p>“Y-Y-Y-You’re mistaken! Iris, that was just a figure of speech, so…!”</p>

  <p>Darkness, who was now exposed, began to panic.</p>

  <p>“N-Now that I think about it, my brother told me about this before… that there was a time when Lalatina washed his back…”</p>

  <p>“What have you been teaching Iris!? Hey, how much did you tell her!?”</p>

  <p>Hearing what Iris said, Darkness continued to dig her own grave.</p>

  <p>’How much did you tell her?‘ she says. That’s basically the same as confirming everything that I’ve said.</p>

  <p>“Ah… Lalatina, the Lalatina I once admired like an older sister… she became an adult before I even realized it. She’s going to a faraway place now, isn’t she…”</p>

  <p>The eyes which once looked at her as a sister, were now looking at her as an adult woman. Darkness could not hide her bewilderment.</p>

  <p>“You’re mistaken, Iris! Despite what this man told you, I’m sure most of it was just accidents and…!”</p>

  <p>“What do you mean by ’accidents’? Just a little while back, you told me that you couldn’t take off your panties, and in the private space of the bathroom, you even told me to take off your underwear.”</p>

  <p>“Kazuma, I’m begging you, just stop!”</p>

  <p>Witnessing our conversation, Iris began to giggle.</p>

  <p>“I-Iris?”</p>

  <p>To Darkness, who was perplexed by the turn of events, Iris happily laughed.</p>

  <p>“Seeing Kazuma, who I think of as a brother, and Lalatina, who I think of as a sister, fighting like this… it feels like a sibling squabble.”</p>

  <p>Dumbfounded, Darkness and I reflexively met each other’s gaze.</p>

  <p>Since Iris didn’t get to see her brother often and didn’t have any other siblings, she probably never got the chance to have a sibling squabble.</p>

  <p>Seeing Iris’s warm smile, Darkness—</p>

  <p>“Iris, this may be lacking in respect, but for the first time in a long while, shall we sleep together like sisters? Fortunately, this is the highest-class room they have at this hotel, and as you can see, the bed is rather wide…”</p>

  <p>“Yes! It would be just like when we were children… …Um, big brother? Is there a problem?”</p>

  <p>As they smiled gleefully at each other, I sprang up from my chair. In response, Iris turned and looked at me with puzzlement.</p>

  <p>“No, if the three of us are going to sleep together like siblings, then I was going to change into my pajamas.”</p>

  <p>“Go die!”</p>

  <p>As Darkness’s irrational shouting washed over me, Iris said, bewildered.</p>

  <p>“Big brother wants to sleep with me as well? Um, if Lalatina is fine with that, I don’t really mind…”</p>

  <p>“Iris, do you understand what you’re saying!? I fully realize it may be rude for me to say this, but what you said just now was absolutely outrageous and idiotic!”</p>

  <p>While Darkness—predictably—objected without any consideration for the time, I, who had been given permission by Iris, hurriedly headed to my room to retrieve my pajamas and pillow…</p>

  <p>“Lalatina, my brother is not the kind of person who would do anything when he’s sleeping with someone else. Without the agreement of the other party, he absolutely will not cross the line.”</p>

  <p>“I-, Is that right…”</p>

  <p>Hey.</p>

  <p>“See, Darkness? Despite you knowing me for much longer, even Iris understands me better. To start with, if the three of us are sleeping together, aren’t you the one most likely to ’amuse yourself’ in that situation? Listen, Iris: this big-sister figure you admire walked into the bath of her own accord even though I was already in there, lured me by saying, ’Let’s become adults together,’ and suddenly kissed me too, alright?”</p>

  <p>“Lala-!?”</p>

  <p>“It’s a misun-…! Iris, you’re mistaken! N-No, it’s… P-Please don’t look at me like that, Iris!”</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
