<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Regarding the Dangers of That Skill</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Regarding the Dangers of That Skill</h1>

  <p>From the Digital Special Edition</p>

  <p>Translator: yuNS</p>

  <p>Editors: Keel the Swift, Deus-ex-Machina</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: Volume 11</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>“Kazuma, Kazuma. What about that fat guy over there? Try reading what he’s saying.”</p>

  <p>After escorting Iris back, we stayed at the castle for several days.</p>

  <p>Those days were packed with party after party celebrating Iris’s dragon slaying and feting us as honored guests.</p>

  <p>“You mean that elderly noble over there? Sure. Leave it to me.”</p>

  <p>During those parties, Aqua and I had nothing to do but eat and drink, so we took to watching people.</p>

  <p>That’s when I started paying more attention to one particular skill of mine.</p>

  <p>I figured I could use the lip-reading skill I’d just learned to entertain myself.</p>

  <p>“What’s this…? ’We’re out of mushroom sauce for my favorite lizard-dragon dish… If only we had some, the meal would be perfect…‘”</p>

  <p>The old man looked like he was daydreaming about dinner.</p>

  <p>“I see, I see. Hey, isn’t that skill kind of fun? I’d learn it if I still could.”</p>

  <p>“You’re not wrong, but let me warn you. When people are giggling in your direction, you need to be extra careful. Even if they don’t want you to hear their trash talk, you’ll read it all in an instant. Not long ago, I used it on some female adventurers who were smiling at me—thinking they were interested—and took some unexpected damage. I confronted them about it, kept pushing until they apologized, and didn’t let them stop until I was satisfied.”</p>

  <p>For the record, I also made them list ten good things about me before I let them off.</p>

  <p>“You’re as shady as ever, aren’t you? Hey, what about those two guys over there? See those old men who look about as shady as you? I don’t know what they’re doing, but they’re huddled near the wall whispering—I’m telling you, they’re up to something. Call it a goddess’s intuition, but I think they’re plotting something nasty!”</p>

  <p>Aqua pointed toward two nobles off to one side of the room, both of whom looked distinctly unwelcoming.</p>

  <p>“Hmm… interesting. Alright, I’ll give it a try!”</p>

  <p>“Hey, I’m pretty sure it’s that kind of thing! You know, like stealing the castle maids’ underwear!”</p>

  <p>Listening to what Aqua said, I started reading the conversation.</p>

  <p>“’So, are the rumors true? That Elroad’s prime minister was a pawn of the Demon King’s Army?’ ’Mhm, there’s no doubt about it. Things will take a turn for the worse if our under-the-table dealings with the prime minister are discovered. If we don’t hurry and destroy the evidence…‘”</p>

  <p>Having read the exchange, I quickly surveyed my surroundings.</p>

  <p>It doesn’t seem like anyone else saw or heard any of that. I should be in the clear.</p>

  <p>“What do we do? I thought they were just pulling some prank, but it looks like we’ve stumbled into something bigger again.”</p>

  <p>“Hey, I didn’t see or hear anything, but shouldn’t we tell Iris, Darkness, or some other important person? Once we do that, we can wash our hands of it.”</p>

  <p>I nodded and accepted Aqua’s suggestion without another word. Lately, her danger sense had gotten scary good.</p>

  <p>At this point, I might be better off never using this skill again.</p>

  <p>At this rate, I’d stumble onto a state secret and get “erased” for it.</p>

  <p>Having quickly realized how dangerous this skill was, I swore in my heart I’d never use it again—</p>

  <p>“Hey, look. Someone’s hitting on Darkness over there.”</p>

  <p>“What?”</p>

  <p>Aqua pointed toward the VIP seats, where a well-dressed Darkness was being aggressively flirted with by a young noble.</p>

  <p>Annoyed for no particular reason, I activated the lip-reading skill I’d sworn off mere moments ago.</p>

  <p>“Kazuma, I know you. You’re going to read what they’re saying, right? Tell me about it, okay?”</p>

  <p>Aqua, who was brimming with curiosity grabbed onto my shoulders and shook me around.</p>

  <p>“Alright, listen up. Here’s what that guy is saying. ’It sure has been a while, Lady Lalatina. Oh, what is this! Since we last met, you’ve become magnificently beautiful! Your looks lead me astray! You are… yes, you are as beguiling as a ”death ambrosia“ blooming deep in the mountains…’ Sorry, I can’t do this anymore. It’s too embarrassing. Also, I don’t even know what a ”death ambrosia“ is, but is that really a compliment?”</p>

  <p>“He said that with a straight face? Okay, then what about Darkness? What did she say?”</p>

  <p>“’What are you saying, Count Befrantz? I heard you personally took to the battlefield the other day and worked up some courage. You are… yes, you are as courageous as a great king goblin….‘”</p>

  <p>“Kazuma, Kazuma. Personal request: hearing you talk like that creeps me out, so stop, alright?”</p>

  <p>This is embarrassing for me, so could you not shut me down so calmly?</p>

  <p>“Anyway, I get how lip reading works now. Hey Kazuma, I’m going to try to read what they’re saying, so tell me if I’m right when I’m done, okay?” Aqua loudly announced.</p>

  <p>The people around us turned to look at Aqua.</p>

  <p>Since everyone knew Aqua was an excellent performer, they watched her with brimming expectations.</p>

  <p>Well, lip reading was kind of like a performance skill, so she might be unexpectedly good at it. I started reading what Darkness and the young noble were saying.</p>

  <p>’By the way, Lady Dustiness, would you mind if we discuss a potential engagement?’</p>

  <p>“By the may, Lady Dustiness, would you mind if we discuss a potential engorgement?”</p>

  <p>Almost, but not quite.</p>

  <p>Hearing “Lady Dustiness” mentioned, the surrounding onlookers seemed to understand what Aqua was doing.</p>

  <p>’Count Befrantz, House Dustiness must politely decline your proposal…‘</p>

  <p>“See-through-panties-loving Dustiness shall wifely…”</p>

  <p>“Alright, people are staring, so stop! Don’t start weird rumors about Darkness again!”</p>

  <p>The next day, it turned out my hurried attempt to stop her was for naught. Darkness’s home received a colorful variety of odd presents all at once, and a troubled Darkness—now the receiving end of a mysterious case of harassment—soon came to consult with me—</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
