<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Dust Spinoff 4 Short Story 2: Such a Waste</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Dust Spinoff 4 Short Story 2: Such a Waste</h1>

  <p>Translator: Cannongerbil</p>

  <p>Editors: Ulti</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Dust Spinoff Volume 4</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>I was wandering Axel’s back alleys one day, looking for anything I could sell, when I faintly heard a man and a woman talking on the wind.</p>

  <p>“Hey now, what’s a man and a woman doing in a deserted place like this? Could it be… They can’t be doing that in broad daylight, can they? I’ll have to see it for myself.”</p>

  <p>As usual, I was flat broke, and I hadn’t been able to afford even the meager fee the succubus shop charged in ages, so I’d gladly welcome an erotic situation like that.</p>

  <p>I quickly approached the source of the voice and peeked out around the corner.</p>

  <p>“Let go of me! Or I’ll call the police!”</p>

  <p>“Hey now, don’t be so cold. Why don’t we go get a few drinks together? I know a good spot not far from here.”</p>

  <p>Oh, never mind. It was just a drunk hitting on a girl.</p>

  <p>The guy looked like a typical run-of-the-mill delinquent, and the woman wore a big hat that obscured most of her face from where I was standing.</p>

  <p>Still, he was doing a terrible job of hitting on her. Nobody follows you if you’re that pushy. I’ve learned from experience.</p>

  <p>One trick I often use is to have friends pretend to do exactly this, then have me swoop in and save the day. The guy looks cooler for pulling her out of a tight spot, and she feels indebted, so most of them will at least agree to get a meal.</p>

  <p>…Come to think of it, that’s how I met Yunyun, wasn’t it? She is pretty well developed, after all.</p>

  <p>“You’re asking me to go drink with you, but you’re planning to do something perverted once I’m tipsy, right?”</p>

  <p>“N-Not at all!”</p>

  <p>“You’ll give me sweet wine, claim it’s watered down, then go all out, right? What exactly are you planning to do after that?”</p>

  <p>“H-How do you know so much?”</p>

  <p>The woman—apparently seeing through all his tricks—said that without missing a beat.</p>

  <p>She sure knew a lot about those tricks. Had she been through this before?</p>

  <p>I could only see her from behind, and her hat hid most of her face, but she’d probably be grateful if I stepped in, right? If she turned out to be my type, I could hit on her afterward. Even if that didn’t work, she’d probably at least treat me to a meal.</p>

  <p>I never expected that the scenario that I’d usually set up with my friends would actually happen for real one day.</p>

  <p>“Heavy-handed tactics like this are the worst! You’ll resort to violence if I resist, won’t you? And to get yourself even more excited, you’ll ask me to strip down to everything but my socks, won’t you?”</p>

  <p>“No, I really don’t want to end up in prison, and I’m not that kind of deviant either…”</p>

  <p>“Huh, is that so? I’ve heard that men enjoy that kind of situation, but I guess I was wrong. I need to study more.”</p>

  <p>The man shrank back at the sudden shift in her tone.</p>

  <p>“Hey now, you shouldn’t be so forceful… What are you doing?”</p>

  <p>The girl turned around at my voice, and I naturally trailed off when I saw her face.</p>

  <p>“Oh, Dust? What are you doing in an alley like this?”</p>

  <p>“That’s my line. Wasn’t your shop in the other direction?”</p>

  <p>The woman the guy was hitting on was the loli succubus, dressed in a more elegant outfit than the one she usually used to pass herself off as a village girl.</p>

  <p>“I’m doing field research. A customer requested a similar situation on the questionnaire, so I’m here to brush up on it.”</p>

  <p>“Oh, well, aren’t you hardworking? It might be a dream, but it’s still important to have a sense of realism in it.”</p>

  <p>“H-Hey, what are you guys talking about!? Don’t ignore me…”</p>

  <p>As Loli Succubus and I started chatting away, the other man in the alley weepingly called out to me.</p>

  <p>“Ah, sorry. I’ve already collected enough data, so you can leave now. Thank you for your time.”</p>

  <p>“Yeah, right, you think I’ll just pack up and leave right now!?”</p>

  <p>“Kyaa-! Dust, save me!”</p>

  <p>The loli succubus screamed that in a flat monotone, jumped behind me, and hugged my waist like she was terrified.</p>

  <p>“Hey, don’t push me! Oh, fine, I get it, so stop clinging to me. Just treat me to a meal later! Hey—take a good look at her! It’ll be a crime if you go any further. You can tell just by looking at her face and flat chest, right?”</p>

  <p>Saying that, I snatched the loli succubus’s hat off, revealing her childlike face and her assets.</p>

  <p>“What, she’s just a kid. Damn. What a waste of time.”</p>

  <p>The man spat on the ground and left.</p>

  <p>Well, that settles that. It wasn’t exactly what I had planned, but with this, I’ll be able to secure food for the day.</p>

  <p>“Right, now about our promise… Hey, why are you puffing out your cheeks? If you want to puff something up, puff up your breasts instead.”</p>

  <p>“And here I thought you looked really cool when you jumped in…”</p>

  <p>“Huh? Did you say something?”</p>

  <p>“Hmph. You wanted dinner, right? I’ll buy you something, so be grateful.”</p>

  <p>The loli succubus’s mood suddenly took a turn for the worse for some reason, but as long as I got something to eat, I had no complaints.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>