<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>The Basic Equipment to Take Down a Demon King</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>The Basic Equipment to Take Down a Demon King</h1>

  <p>Translator: Cannongerbil</p>

  <p>Editors: Ulti</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 15</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>I turned my sword over in my hand and muttered to myself.</p>

  <p>“…I really want a magic sword.”</p>

  <p>Yeah. A magic sword.</p>

  <p>Even after taking down more than a few of the Demon King’s generals, my gear was still pretty pathetic.</p>

  <p>If this were a game, I would’ve looted some rare equipment off a boss by now—or found some ridiculous treasure stashed in their fortress. But no. Nothing like that had happened at all.</p>

  <p>…Right then, Megumin glanced up from her book, “How to Prepare Beef and Potato Stew for Dummies,” and said,</p>

  <p>“Isn’t your Chunchunmaru already a pretty rare sword? What’s so unsatisfactory about it?”</p>

  <p>“The name, for starters.”</p>

  <p>I’d had it made using half-remembered Japanese sword-forging trivia from documentaries and whatever else I’d seen.</p>

  <p>It wasn’t a proper katana, and it had a painfully embarrassing name engraved right into the blade.</p>

  <p>“This might sound boastful, but there aren’t many swords with a name that cool, you know. I’ve told you before— your naming sense is really strange.”</p>

  <p>“I never thought I’d live to see the day you criticized my naming sense…”</p>

  <p>Where does this girl even get that kind of confidence?</p>

  <p>“Still, a magic sword, huh? I get why you’d want one. It’d be hard to take down the Demon King without a powerful magic weapon, after all.”</p>

  <p>“I’m not doing this for some grand destiny, so knock it off.”</p>

  <p>Even so, there are plenty of monsters in this world you can’t hurt without a magic weapon.</p>

  <p>And at this point, I’m a pretty well-known adventurer.</p>

  <p>Maybe it really was time to get my hands on at least one decent magic weapon.</p>

  <p>“…All right. Let’s go get you a magic sword.”</p>

  <p>Megumin said it in the exact same tone someone would use for, ‘I’m going to pick up milk.’</p>

  <p> </p>

  <p>Not long after, we arrived at the adventurers’ guild.</p>

  <p>“See? There’s a magic sword.”</p>

  <p>“It’s been a while… but what is this about?”</p>

  <p>Standing in front of us was the Magic Sword Guy.</p>

  <p>“Hey, Megumin. If I take the magic sword away from Magic Sword Guy, doesn’t he just become… Regular Guy?”</p>

  <p>“It’s true. That magic sword really is his only defining feature…”</p>

  <p>“Hey, wait! I have plenty of other memorable traits! And would you please call me by my name?!”</p>

  <p>The Magic Sword Guy started making a scene for no reason.</p>

  <p>“You’re going to bother everyone if you keep shouting, Magic Sword Guy. Anyway, Kazuma wants a magic sword. If I remember right, you have a powerful one called Gram, don’t you?”</p>

  <p>“Why can you remember my sword’s name but not mine?!”</p>

  <p>He was still just as agitated.</p>

  <p>Something occurred to me.</p>

  <p>“Megumin, Gram’s a magic sword that only he can use. I don’t think I could make proper use of it.”</p>

  <p>“Is that so? It really is a waste for Magic Sword Guy to have a weapon that powerful when he can’t even manage to take down a single Demon King’s general…”</p>

  <p>His magic sword is a divine treasure linked to him alone.</p>

  <p>“A-A waste… Hey, wait! I’ve taken down a few high-bounty targets!”</p>

  <p>“…Well, fine. In that case, let’s head to our next stop.”</p>

  <p>“Listen to me!”</p>

  <p>And Megumin’s “next stop” was…</p>

  <p> </p>

  <p>“Welcome, dear customers in search of a magic sword. Vanir stocks all kinds of magic weapons, so feel free to choose whatever you like.”</p>

  <p>“Ah, right. If you want a magic sword, a magic-item shop is a pretty obvious place to start.”</p>

  <p>Vanir greeted us cheerfully as we stepped into Wiz’s magic-item shop.</p>

  <p>“Kazuma, look! This is a really powerful magic item. And I can tell —it’s compatible with me!”</p>

  <p>“Oh? As expected of a Crimson Demon, your eye for magic items is sharp. That is a rare magic sword that explodes when you pour mana into it.”</p>

  <p>“I’m not buying that.”</p>

  <p>Based on past experience, Vanir would absolutely try to pawn some useless junk off on me, so I got ahead of it and pulled out a small, heavy bag of coins.</p>

  <p>“Use your powers and find me a magic sword I can actually use. And no trash.”</p>

  <p>“Leave it to me, dear customer! Fuhahahahaha! Behold, my powers of foresight…!”</p>

  <p>After taking the bag, Vanir’s eyes began to glow…</p>

  <p>“…Brat. Magic swords tend to choose their own wielders…”</p>

  <p>“Don’t say another word! You’re about to tell me there isn’t a magic sword I can use, aren’t you?!”</p>

  <p>Great. This again. The downsides of having the weakest class were coming back to haunt me—again!</p>

  <p>But Vanir shook his head and handed me a small knife case from the shelf.</p>

  <p>“Isn’t this a cooking knife?”</p>

  <p>Inside was a fish filleting knife.</p>

  <p>“This is the magic item ‘Fish Slayer.’ It is enchanted to deal extra damage to aquatic creatures. Vanir wholeheartedly recommends it.”</p>

  <p>“You bastard, are you telling me to pick a fight with some powerful enemy armed with a kitchen knife?! I’m not going into battle with a kitchen knife! …But it does look kind of cool, so I’ll buy it anyway!”</p>

  <p> </p>

  <p>And that’s how my kitchen ended up equipped with a magic sword.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
