<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>The Crimson Demons Are Highly Intelligent</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>The Crimson Demons Are Highly Intelligent</h1>

  <p>From the Digital Edition: Crimson Demons Are Highly Intelligent</p>

  <p>Translator: yuNS</p>

  <p>Editors: Keel the Swift</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 2</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>“I won’t accept this! One more time! Please —just one more time!”</p>

  <p>On a mild, drizzly afternoon—</p>

  <p>In the mansion’s living room, Megumin was yelling.</p>

  <p>With the rain coming down, we’d decided to take the day off from work and requests.</p>

  <p>Aqua was dozing by the fireplace, and next to her, Darkness was busy repairing her armor.</p>

  <p>And in the middle of it all—</p>

  <p>“Hah. Struggle all you want, it’s pointless, Megumin. If we’re playing a game with actual rules, there’s no way you can beat a real gamer like me.”</p>

  <p>“Nnngh…! The Crimson Demons are highly intelligent, so I refuse to lose a battle of wits…!”</p>

  <p>Megumin and I were killing time with a board game.</p>

  <p>Specifically, “shogi.”</p>

  <p>“Ugh… Since I can’t use ‘Teleport’ or ‘Explosion,’ I can’t pull any reckless strategies… What am I supposed to do…?”</p>

  <p>This world has board games similar to chess and shogi.</p>

  <p>Of course, since this is a world with magic, it also has idiotic special moves—like teleporting a piece anywhere you want, or literally flipping the whole board with an explosion.</p>

  <p>“Seriously, I don’t know why a game with rules that stupid even exists. So, what’ll it be? You ready to give up? Loser gets a slap on the wrist, you know.”</p>

  <p>“NNNNNGGGGG…!”</p>

  <p>At the mention of the “punishment,” Darkness—who’d been polishing her armor—suddenly started fidgeting.</p>

  <p>If I played against her, she’d absolutely throw the match on purpose just to get slapped.</p>

  <p>“Then… I-I’ll put this here…”</p>

  <p>“All right! I’ve been waiting for that! Rook to check—!”</p>

  <p>“AAAAH! Wait, wait! That doesn’t count! Please! One more!”</p>

  <p>As Megumin kept stubbornly refusing to give up and let out a watery shriek, I snapped my fingers with extra enthusiasm to deliver the punishment.</p>

  <p>“…Ugh. I lost again… At this rate, my one-day-one-explosion policy is going to…”</p>

  <p>“Give it up already. On a rainy day like this, it’s better to just sit around and play games.”</p>

  <p>I said it while clearing the shogi board. Megumin’s wrist was already red from all the slaps.</p>

  <p>If I won, she got slapped on the wrist.</p>

  <p>If I lost, I had to go on an Explosion walk with Megumin in the rain.</p>

  <p>As I put away my homemade shogi set, I pulled out my equally homemade deck of cards.</p>

  <p>“Let’s play poker next. You’re so smart I don’t need to explain the rules, right?”</p>

  <p>“No! I refuse! Even if it isn’t pure luck, I’m never beating you!”</p>

  <p>Right then, someone pounded on the mansion’s front door.</p>

  <p>I set the cards down on the table and headed for the entrance.</p>

  <p>“…It’s a man. The visitor is a man.”</p>

  <p>Megumin murmured that out of nowhere.</p>

  <p>“…Oh? So you want to play that game, huh? Fine. I’ll say it’s a woman.”</p>

  <p>I flashed a confident grin, and she returned it.</p>

  <p>“Fufufu. You’re underestimating the brains of the Crimson Demons. I have perfectly sound reasoning! First, we hardly ever get visitors. Second, the people most likely to show up are newspaper sellers or the mail carrier. And those jobs are basically all men. Therefore, the visitor is a man!”</p>

  <p>As Megumin triumphantly presented her logic, I opened the door.</p>

  <p>“Good afternoon! Is Darkness here? …Huh? What’s with you two? Why are you so happy —and did she just faceplant into the couch?”</p>

  <p>Standing outside was Darkness’s friend, the thief Chris.</p>

  <p>“I win!”</p>

  <p>“Why is it Chris?! At this hour, who else would it be but the mail carrier?!”</p>

  <p>Chris tilted her head, confused, and stepped inside.</p>

  <p>“…What’s with these two?”</p>

  <p>“Don’t worry about it. They’re just messing around. Ignore them.”</p>

  <p>Chris sat down next to Darkness and watched me wind up for another wrist slap.</p>

  <p>“Yesterday, I heard Darkness and Chris talking about the forecast. Since it was supposed to rain today and Chris had nothing to do, she said she’d come over to hang out.”</p>

  <p>“What kind of nonsense is that?! That’s not fair!”</p>

  <p>“How is that unfair? I simply prepared for battle…!”</p>

  <p>While we were arguing, someone knocked again.</p>

  <p>…</p>

  <p>Megumin and I slowly turned to look at each other.</p>

  <p>“It’s a man! It’ll be a man this time too! Same reasoning as before!”</p>

  <p>“H-Hey, wait! Why do you get to pick first again? You went first last time, so I go first this time. And I also say it’s a man…!”</p>

  <p>I’d known Chris was coming, so I’d guessed “woman” last time. But this time… I had a bad feeling Megumin was right.</p>

  <p>“I said that’s not fair! Bet on a woman, Kazuma!”</p>

  <p>“No, wait, how about we settle who gets to pick with rock-paper-scissors…”</p>

  <p>As our argument escalated, Darkness finally said,</p>

  <p>“That’s enough. Hurry up and open the door already.”</p>

  <p>Notes:</p>

  <p>—If you haven’t figured it out already, take a moment to think about why Kazuma suggested rock-paper-scissors.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
