<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>KonoSuba Nichijou Manga Short Story 1: The Divine Hand of the Other World</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>KonoSuba Nichijou Manga Short Story 1: The Divine Hand of the Other World</h1>

  <p>Translator: Shaoqi</p>

  <p>Editors: Cannongerbil, Ulti, Xenthur</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After KonoSuba Nichijou Manga Volume 1</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>“EXPLOSION—!!!!”</p>

  <p>That day,</p>

  <p>I was walking home from Megumin’s daily explosion when I passed through Axel’s vendor street.</p>

  <p>“Step right up! Step right up! Do we have a treat for you today! High-level ingredients! Fresh fruits and vegetables! You won’t find these anywhere else!”</p>

  <p>The produce stand owner was running some kind of raffle and shouting at the top of his lungs.</p>

  <p>Produce in this world can be a real pain.</p>

  <p>They fly. They dive-bomb you. They squirt juice in your eyes. You know, things that should not be possible for something that grows in dirt.</p>

  <p>But even the worst of them still answer to nature, and right now it was freezing out. Some fly off to look for warmth like migrating birds; others hole up and hibernate through the winter.</p>

  <p>That’s why they cost a fortune this time of year, and only nobles can afford the greenhouse-grown stuff.</p>

  <p>“Kazuma. What’s up? You want to grab something for dinner?”</p>

  <p>“Nah. I’ve gotta carry you home, don’t I? Besides, you three are having a girls’ night with Chris and Yunyun, right? I’ll just grab dinner after I drop you off.”</p>

  <p>Just as I was about to leave the vendor street—</p>

  <p>“Today’s prizes are fresh produce loaded with experience points! Pumpkins, watermelons, and matsutake! You heard me! The grand prize is the unbelievably rare matsutake!”</p>

  <p>The next day.</p>

  <p>“My stomach hurts.”</p>

  <p>I woke up way earlier than usual with a throbbing pain in my gut.</p>

  <p>“This is what you get for living such a depraved lifestyle. Did you ruin your liver from drinking too much? It can’t be the food—we eat the same meals. Just hurry up and go to the bathroom or something.”</p>

  <p>“This doesn’t feel like the kind of pain a bathroom trip would fix. And I don’t have a fever, and I’m not nauseous. Can you help me out and use your healing magic? It’s not unbearable, but it’s really uncomfortable.”</p>

  <p>While I grimaced and held my stomach, Aqua crunched snacks off the table without a hint of sympathy.</p>

  <p>“If you’ve caught a disease, I’m afraid healing magic won’t do anything. Germs cause pain and suffering, sure, but they’re living things. The most I can do is remove the toxins they produce.”</p>

  <p>“Are you serious?”</p>

  <p>I’d assumed magic solved everything in this world, but apparently it came with weird rulebook exceptions.</p>

  <p>She did cast a purification spell on me anyway. It did absolutely nothing. That was when Megumin paused her chess match to chime in.</p>

  <p>“If your symptoms didn’t change after purification, maybe it isn’t a disease after all. Kazuma, while we were out for girls’ night… what did you eat for dinner?”</p>

  <p>What I ate last night, huh…</p>

  <p>“Well, I won the grand prize at a stall and got some high-quality ingredients. But it was supposed to be fresh—magically cultivated and all that.”</p>

  <p>“You went off and had a feast by yourself!? How could you do that to your comrades!? Leaving us out was unforgivable, you useless shut-in!”</p>

  <p>“So what was it!? Matsutake? Lobster? Fugu? Spit it out, right now!”</p>

  <p>While Aqua and Megumin interrogated me, Darkness pondered aloud with her chin in her hand.</p>

  <p>“If you didn’t eat wild vegetables, then it shouldn’t be food poisoning. You should go to the hospital and get checked, just in case. Worst case, you could be carrying parasites right now.”</p>

  <p>“Don’t say that! Now I feel even worse. We haven’t fought any monsters lately since we haven’t done any quests… so it can’t be parasites… right?”</p>

  <p>Megumin and Aqua burst out laughing at how nervous I sounded.</p>

  <p>“Who knows? Parasites are supposed to be pretty smart, you know. It would make perfect sense for them to hide in high-quality vegetables—it’s safe, it’s warm, and it’s winter.”</p>

  <p>“Yeah, and normally you can just pick them out before you cook. But Kazuma, with his complete lack of common sense in this world, probably thought he could just fry everything and call it a day. Haha! Punishment! That’s what you get for feasting without us! Parasites are terrifying, you know? Like that movie Alien—just like that…”</p>

  <p>I hurriedly covered Aqua’s mouth before she could say something truly horrifying.</p>

  <p>“Okay, hospital. Even if it’s probably nothing, it’ll be bad if I infect you guys!”</p>

  <p>With my last ounce of courage—and a whole lot of fake concern—I quickly left the house.</p>

  <p>On the outskirts of Axel stood a building that looked very, very wrong.</p>

  <p>“…This is a hospital?”</p>

  <p>I froze in front of the pitch-black building, getting a very bad feeling from whatever was inside.</p>

  <p>“Yeah, what are you doing? Hurry up! Don’t worry, there are no needles in this world.”</p>

  <p>“No, the atmosphere of this place is screaming ‘bad idea’…”</p>

  <p>Aqua and the others—who came along despite my protests—shoved me inside.</p>

  <p>“Welcome!”</p>

  <p>“Excuse me.”</p>

  <p>I took one look at who greeted me and immediately turned around.</p>

  <p>“Hey, Kazuma, why are you scared of the hospital? Are you a kid?! Don’t worry—they can put you under with magic if you’re in a lot of pain.”</p>

  <p>“Yes! If Kazuma has parasites living inside him unchecked, something terrible could happen later!”</p>

  <p>Darkness and Megumin did their best to calm me down, but they weren’t addressing the real problem.</p>

  <p>“What kind of hospital is this!? Where’s the doctor!?”</p>

  <p>A man stepped in front of me, wearing a bone necklace and draped in a black cloak.</p>

  <p>“I’m the doctor.”</p>

  <p>“What kind of doctor are you!? A witch doctor!?”</p>

  <p>The room fell into an awkward silence.</p>

  <p>“Uh, Kazuma… Witch Doctor is an advanced medical class. You didn’t know?”</p>

  <p>“Why!? That makes no sense! Shouldn’t doctors be healers—like priests or archpriests!?”</p>

  <p>Aqua dragged me into a corner and explained.</p>

  <p>“Listen, Kazuma. You know sickness is caused by germs, right? Recovery magic doesn’t work on germs. If you want to kill germs, curses and voodoo are your best bet.”</p>

  <p>“Oh… Right. Another world…”</p>

  <p>But still… this being the only option for germs… would it actually work?</p>

  <p>“Also, they do surgery here. They bring in a priest, cast a strong sleep spell together, and then operate.”</p>

  <p>“I’ll admit I didn’t know curses could be used like this… but I still can’t wrap my head around this world’s logic.”</p>

  <p>Fine. I guess this really was a hospital.</p>

  <p>“Calmed down? Then come in and tell me what symptoms you’re experiencing.”</p>

  <p>The witch doctor gestured toward a room farther in.</p>

  <p>Well, I guess I didn’t have a choice. If I wanted to avoid dying from weird food, I needed treatment…</p>

  <p>“But to think you have three beautiful ladies attending you… It makes one jealous. Ahh, I almost feel like having an accident myself…”</p>

  <p>“Excuse me.”</p>

  <p>I immediately bolted for the door after hearing the witch doctor muttering to himself.</p>

  <p>“Hey, what’s wrong with you!? This is a renowned witch doctor whose curses are recognized far and wide!”</p>

  <p>“Kazuma, what’s wrong? Are you not satisfied with a doctor so skilled he could curse the whole world!?”</p>

  <p>How were any of those “compliments” even remotely related to medicine!?</p>

  <p>With Darkness and Megumin holding onto me, I had no choice but to enter the room.</p>

  <p>The witch doctor gave me an ugly look when he saw the two of them holding my hands.</p>

  <p>“So, what brings you here today?”</p>

  <p>“Kazuma’s been complaining about a stomachache since this morning.”</p>

  <p>Aqua answered for me, and the witch doctor nodded along.</p>

  <p>“Well, it could be a lot of things, so let’s cut you open and find out.”</p>

  <p>“Hey! This guy’s a quack! I’m out of here! L-Let go! LET ME GO!”</p>

  <p>Megumin and Darkness held me down; they either didn’t hear or didn’t care about the absolute garbage he’d just said.</p>

  <p>“Leave the recovery magic to me. Doctor, please help Kazuma.”</p>

  <p>“Leave it to me. This doesn’t look like a disease. I’ve never seen a patient so energetic. Just relax—nothing bad is going to happen. We’re simply going to find out what’s wrong.”</p>

  <p>“How can you let him cut me open over something as small as a stomachache!? Wh-What are you doing!? What spell is that!? HEY, AQUA, STOP THIS MAN! DARKNESS! MEGUMIN! THIS GUY IS A QUACK! DON’T LET HIM CUT ME OPEN! LET GO…”</p>

  <p>Just as I remembered I could use Drain Touch on those two, the witch doctor raised his hand and…</p>

  <p>“Good. Take a deep breath. Relax… relax… don’t be afraid. Let the sleeping curse take over… ”</p>

  <p>It was dark outside by the time I finally came to.</p>

  <p>Looks like they carried me home while I was out. I was in bed, and the first thing I saw was Aqua slumped over a chair, dead asleep.</p>

  <p>“Oh, you’re awake, Kazuma. I was worried that—ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh!?”</p>

  <p>“Hey, what are you doing to Megumin—ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh!?”</p>

  <p>I immediately used Drain Touch on Darkness and Megumin, who were sitting in chairs beside my bed.</p>

  <p>“How could you two hand me over to that weirdo!? Why did I need surgery for a stomachache!? I almost died!”</p>

  <p>“Ahhhhhhh s-stop, or I won’t be able to cast Explosion today! The treatment worked, right!? You shouldn’t still be hurting, right!?”</p>

  <p>“Right, aren’t you better!? If you keep draining me… Oh… oh… wait, just a bit more… Wait, no—when you do it harder it feels…”</p>

  <p>“Huh? You’re right—I do feel a lot better… But if I could’ve just slept it off, why did that guy have to do surgery on me?”</p>

  <p>The commotion must’ve woken Aqua up, because she blinked and looked around. Then she said the first thing that made my blood boil.</p>

  <p>“Yaaawn… Oh, good morning, Kazuma. How do you feel? You were in a lot of danger, you know.”</p>

  <p>“Hey, it was just a stomachache. Don’t exaggerate. There’s no way it was parasites, right? You were just guessing, right…?”</p>

  <p>“Watermelon, Kazuma. Watermelon. You didn’t spit out the seeds properly. Watermelons don’t care if they’re in a monster’s stomach or anywhere else—they’ll grow. The seeds in your stomach were sprouting.”</p>

  <p>“Seriously? That’s way too scary.”</p>

  <p>There should really be a limit to how troublesome crops can be in this world. I never imagined watermelons could be this terrifying.</p>

  <p>“Sigh… If that’s the case, then I was awful. That doctor really was skilled…”</p>

  <p>I needed to apologize—and thank him properly.</p>

  <p>“Oh, right. He told me to tell you he treated some other part of you too. He didn’t say what, though.”</p>

  <p>I tilted my head at Aqua’s message.</p>

  <p>Then I suddenly realized something and slipped a hand under the blanket to check my lower half.</p>

  <p>…And then I decided I would absolutely go thank that excellent, highly skilled doctor tomorrow.</p>

  <p>“Hey, Kazuma, are you still feeling sick? What else did he treat? Do you know?”</p>

  <p>I didn’t answer Darkness’s question. Instead, my mind drifted back to my homeland of Japan, where —according to a survey— about 80% of Japanese men…</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>