<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>The Famous Goddess of Axel</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>The Famous Goddess of Axel</h1>

  <p>Translator: Cannongerbil</p>

  <p>Editors: Striker, Ulti</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 16</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>I was walking through Axel to pick up dinner when an older woman I didn’t recognize stopped to flirt with me.</p>

  <p>“Excuse me—may I have a moment?”</p>

  <p>She was clutching a small bottle and looked genuinely worried.</p>

  <p>“You’re one of Aqua’s companions, right? I want to buy Aqua’s delicious water, but… is she not selling today?”</p>

  <p>“Sorry, I’m not following.”</p>

  <p>So no, she wasn’t flirting with me. Shame.</p>

  <p>“No, usually Aqua brings her sparkling, delicious water out around this time, but…”</p>

  <p>She was doing that?</p>

  <p>“Well, something came up. She isn’t in town right now.”</p>

  <p>“When I cook with Aqua’s water, my children don’t have allergic reactions…”</p>

  <p>She slumped and started to walk away.</p>

  <p>It was rare to see Aqua be genuinely useful to anyone.</p>

  <p>And just as I was briefly impressed, a booming voice came from the main street.</p>

  <p>“Gather round! Gather round! I am Pierre—one of the great street performers competing for the number-one spot in the capital! Prepare to be amazed!”</p>

  <p>When I looked over, a surprisingly big crowd had already gathered.</p>

  <p>“Axel is famous for making street performers run off in tears! Will my acts satisfy your discerning eyes!?”</p>

  <p>The great street performer Pierre gave an exaggerated bow.</p>

  <p>This was the first I’d heard about Axel having a reputation for traumatizing entertainers…</p>

  <p>Scattered applause met him, and he reached into his bag.</p>

  <p>“First, a greeting! What could be in this bag, I wonder…!”</p>

  <p>A few kids in the crowd started shouting excitedly.</p>

  <p>“A rookie killer! A rookie killer bigger than the bag will jump out!”</p>

  <p>“No, a flock of crows! They’ll fly out and draw a picture in the sky! Aqua did it!”</p>

  <p>Pierre froze after hearing what his audience apparently considered “normal.”</p>

  <p>“…No. This is just candy I’m handing out as a greeting. I haven’t started my act yet. This is just a candy box. Here, young lady—have a sweet.”</p>

  <p>He hurriedly passed out candy, trying to reset the tone.</p>

  <p>“It would seem the people of this town are no strangers to street performances! Very well! I shall skip straight to my eighteenth act! Behold—the disappearing act!”</p>

  <p>At Pierre’s words, a woman in a bunny-girl outfit strode up beside him.</p>

  <p>“Disappearing act? Don’t tell me…”</p>

  <p>“He’s joking, right? There’s no way he’s being serious, right?”</p>

  <p>Hearing the crowd’s astonished reaction, Pierre sounded delighted.</p>

  <p>“Oh? That got your attention! Behold! When I cover her with this cloak, she will vanish in an instant! Of course, this is an ordinary cloak! No tricks, no magic!”</p>

  <p>Screams erupted.</p>

  <p>“Stop! What are you trying to do to that lady!?”</p>

  <p>“This guy’s insane! Somebody call the police—call an adventurer—call anyone!”</p>

  <p>With kids starting to cry and adults sprinting off for help, Pierre finally realized something was very wrong with the vibe here.</p>

  <p>“I-I don’t know why everyone’s so worked up, but… maybe watch before you judge!? All right! Is everyone ready!? One, two, three!”</p>

  <p>The moment Pierre covered the woman with the cloak, the crowd gasped.</p>

  <p>At the same time, the cloak floated gently to the ground…</p>

  <p>“N-No! Th-The lady—!”</p>

  <p>“She disappeared! This guy’s dangerous!”</p>

  <p>“Get someone here! He’s a criminal! A murderer!”</p>

  <p>Watching the panic spiral out of control, Pierre’s mask of composure finally cracked.</p>

  <p>“Wait! This is just a show! Why is this happening!? What is wrong with these people!? Everyone’s reactions are completely unhinged!”</p>

  <p>After the policemen who rushed over heard the crowd’s explanation…</p>

  <p>“Great street performer Pierre, please come with us to the station.”</p>

  <p>“Why!? What is wrong with this town!? I performed an act in the street! Why am I being arrested!?”</p>

  <p>“Because you made that woman vanish! You said there were no tricks or magic!”</p>

  <p>“There’s obviously a trick! That woman can cast Teleport—!”</p>

  <p>As Pierre got surrounded by the police, I finally understood why the people of Axel were reacting like this.</p>

  <p>It was because the party-trick goddess in my party really could make things disappear with no tricks and no magic.</p>

  <p>“So it was a trick after all. Once you’ve seen the real thing…”</p>

  <p>“It was just Teleport? What a boring trick…”</p>

  <p>“Come to think of it, I don’t see Aqua anywhere. She usually shows up way before now to crush the performer’s spirit.”</p>

  <p>Selling water. Ruining street acts. Doing party tricks.</p>

  <p>I thought I knew Aqua pretty well, but apparently there was still a lot I didn’t know.</p>

  <p>With that on my mind, I finished shopping and walked back to my mansion…</p>

  <p>“Ah, Kazuma, good timing! Aqua ran up a huge tab at the bar! They just sent the receipt…”</p>

  <p>When I got her back, I was going to have to keep a much closer eye on her.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
