<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>The Goddess, Working Hard.</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>The Goddess, Working Hard.</h1>

  <p>From the Digital Special Edition</p>

  <p>Translator: yuNS</p>

  <p>Editors: Keel the Swift, Deus-ex-Machina</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: Volume 10</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>11:00 a.m.</p>

  <p>Aqua stumbled down the stairs in her pajamas, still half-asleep.</p>

  <p>She flopped onto the couch and watched Megumin —today’s cook— make lunch. For Aqua, it counted as breakfast.</p>

  <p>Despite looking like she might pass out mid-bite, she ate twice as much as everyone else, reclaimed her seat, and made herself at home.</p>

  <p>She plopped Emperor Zell onto her stomach and started an afternoon nap.</p>

  <p>1:00 p.m.</p>

  <p>After her nap, Aqua went back to her room and changed into her usual outfit.</p>

  <p>Apparently she still had time to kill, so she decided to go for a walk.</p>

  <p>First, she hit up Darkness —who was peacefully drinking black tea with a book— for pocket money.</p>

  <p>In exchange for doing the dishes tomorrow, Darkness (thoroughly interrupted) handed her a few coins.</p>

  <p>2:00 p.m.</p>

  <p>For reasons I still don’t understand, an elderly man from the neighborhood stopped to pay his respects to Aqua.</p>

  <p>It was that old guy who was infamous for lurking around at night. Never a good sign.</p>

  <p>Delighted to be worshiped, Aqua cast Heal on him and went on her way.</p>

  <p>When she spotted a cat curled up asleep, she stopped and stared.</p>

  <p>She clearly wanted to pet it, but held back after remembering Chomusuke’s usual rejection.</p>

  <p>“It’d be cruel to wake you up, so I’ll let you off this time,” she announced to no one in particular. With a satisfied nod, she walked away.</p>

  <p>For the record, her loud announcement woke the cat anyway.</p>

  <p>3:00 p.m.</p>

  <p>As the town bell rang out the hour, Aqua continued wandering without any particular destination.</p>

  <p>When she spotted a crêpe stall, she immediately spent the money Darkness had just given her on a crêpe.</p>

  <p>Even though she’d eaten a mountain of food earlier, she clearly planned to keep going.</p>

  <p>Maybe she treated an afternoon “three o’clock snack” like a sacred duty.</p>

  <p>Then she smirked and declared, “Today’s crêpes aren’t bad.” She seemed to be a regular.</p>

  <p>They even gave her leftover trimmings.</p>

  <p>Happily biting into her crêpe, she carried on.</p>

  <p>3:30 p.m.</p>

  <p>Aqua barged into a group of kids building sandcastles in the park.</p>

  <p>Using Create Water to dampen the sand, she sculpted a life-size goblin.</p>

  <p>Wearing a childish, triumphant grin, she basked in the kids’ praise for her goblin masterpiece.</p>

  <p>I honestly couldn’t tell who the kid was anymore, but after soaking up the applause, Aqua told them, “Tweak it, smash it, do whatever you want,” and left.</p>

  <p>A mischievous kid immediately dropkicked the goblin into pieces.</p>

  <p>4:00 p.m.</p>

  <p>She splashed into the town fountain and fished out a coin like it was the most normal thing in the world.</p>

  <p>A passing police officer told her to stop. Somehow, Aqua was the one who got mad. “Coins thrown into fountains are offerings to me, the one who rules water!” she snapped, picking a fight.</p>

  <p>Apparently recognizing the Axis cult vibes from her behavior alone, the officer grimaced, muttered, “Yeah, yeah, I get it,” and hurried away.</p>

  <p>He clearly wanted to stay as far away from trouble as possible.</p>

  <p>4:30 p.m.</p>

  <p>Only minutes after entering Wiz’s Magic Item Shop, Aqua came right back out.</p>

  <p>Vanir charged out after her and hurled salt in her direction. Apparently she’d done something and gotten herself kicked out.</p>

  <p>[TL Note: Salt is used to purify an area and drive away evil spirits.]</p>

  <p>Vanir pointed straight at Aqua’s face, said something, and went back inside. In response, Aqua cast magic on the door.</p>

  <p>The door began to glow with white light. It looked like she’d thrown up some kind of barrier out of pure spite.</p>

  <p>Vanir started yelling from inside the shop, but Aqua covered her ears, pretended she couldn’t hear him, and ran off.</p>

  <p>From how smoothly it all played out, this clearly wasn’t the first time.</p>

  <p>5:00 p.m.</p>

  <p>Still wandering the streets, Aqua got thanked by a fishmonger for using Create Water to give the fish clean water. Then she annoyed the liquor shop owner by peering into one of the barrels.</p>

  <p>She seemed pretty familiar with the shopping district. She greeted shopkeepers, got praised for filling bottles with clean water, and stayed in a great mood the whole time.</p>

  <p>Chewing on dried squid she’d been given as thanks, she finally made it to the Eris Church.</p>

  <p>Still chewing, she hopped into the line where they were handing out rations. She seemed to be a regular here too, because the Eris priest sighed as she handed Aqua a piece of bread.</p>

  <p>Then Aqua got back in line. Again. And again.</p>

  <p>In the end, after getting scolded and told to stop, she walked away with a ridiculous amount of bread.</p>

  <p>6:00 p.m.</p>

  <p>At the Axis Church, Aqua started handing out bread to passersby with Cecily.</p>

  <p>“The Eris Church isn’t the only one feeding the less fortunate! The Axis Church does it too!” Axis this, Axis that —she just kept shouting.</p>

  <p>Once I’d seen enough, I decided there was nothing more for me to do and went home.</p>

  <p>“Hey, Kazuma, listen. Today I did a ton of good deeds befitting a holy professional, you know? Some old man worshiped me after I healed him, kids praised me, I sealed up the shop where a devil lives, I got thanked up and down the shopping district, and I did charity work with the church. So, as a reward for my admirable hard work… could I have some spending money?”</p>

  <p>“I tailed you since this morning with my Lurk skill to answer the question ‘what the heck do you even do all day,’ and now I have more questions than answers! What is wrong with you!? There’s no way you’re actually a goddess, right!?”</p>


  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
