<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Explosions 3 Toranora Short Story: The Highly Respected Crimson Demons</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Explosions 3 Toranora Short Story: The Highly Respected Crimson Demons</h1>

  <p>Explosions 3 Toranora Short Story</p>

  <p>Intermediate Translator: Lazy Donkey</p>

  <p>Translator: Cannongerbil</p>

  <p>Editors: Ulti</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: Explosions Volume 3</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>This happened back when Yunyun and I were exploring Axel.</p>

  <p>“Hey, aren’t those two Crimson Demons?”</p>

  <p>“W-wait, seriously? The Crimson Demons? You mean that ridiculously powerful mage clan even the Demon King’s Army doesn’t want to mess with?”</p>

  <p>We could hear whispers like that behind us as we walked down the street.</p>

  <p>I kept my expression calm and glanced at Yunyun.</p>

  <p>She looked normal enough, but the corners of her mouth kept twitching upward.</p>

  <p>I was probably doing the exact same thing.</p>

  <p>Behind us, the two men continued their hushed conversation.</p>

  <p>“Every single Crimson Demon is an elite mage, and their mana reserves are on an entirely different level.”</p>

  <p>“And did you hear this? Apparently they built a watchtower next to their village that keeps an eye on the Demon King’s castle. That’s why the Demon King’s Army has to keep a huge force stationed there. If they ever pull troops out to attack and leave the castle lightly guarded, the Crimson Demons will notice immediately and strike. It’s basically thanks to them that things stay peaceful around here.”</p>

  <p>At this point, my smile was definitely showing. I could tell from Yunyun’s expression that hers was too.</p>

  <p>We pretended to be very interested in Axel, looking around curiously and deliberately slowing our pace.</p>

  <p>It was definitely not because we wanted to keep listening to those two.</p>

  <p>…Yes. We were simply fascinated by the merchandise in a nearby shop window.</p>

  <p>The shopkeeper, who was sitting cross-legged on the ground, looked up at us and said,</p>

  <p>“Welcome, but if you’re just here to window-shop, I’m going to have to ask you to move along. Most adventurers can’t even use these items, after all… Wait. You two are Crimson Demons!”</p>

  <p>He blurted the last part out the moment he saw our eyes.</p>

  <p>Realizing what he’d just said, the shopkeeper hurried to recover.</p>

  <p>“Of course I recognized you two as Crimson Demons—the clan that supplies the world with so many magical items! Please, browse my wares! These are the kinds of goods ordinary adventurers can’t make use of, but you two absolutely can! Take your time! In particular…”</p>

  <p>He leaned forward and produced an item with theatrical reverence.</p>

  <p>“This is the jewel of my shop!”</p>

  <p>He started pulling out one item after another for us to inspect.</p>

  <p>“Ah—no, we were just curious. We don’t really intend to buy anything…”</p>

  <p>Yunyun and I tried to refuse, but…</p>

  <p>“As expected of Crimson Demons. Even that grumpy shopkeeper is fawning over them.”</p>

  <p>“Yeah. That old man won’t sell to anyone he doesn’t deem worthy, no matter how much they offer. And he even brought out his prized item for those two…”</p>

  <p>The two men behind us sounded genuinely impressed.</p>

  <p>So this shopkeeper was famous.</p>

  <p>Hearing that, Yunyun fought hard to keep a straight face as she picked something up off the shelf.</p>

  <p>“…Yeah. This doesn’t look too bad.”</p>

  <p>She handed it to me.</p>

  <p>“Hmm. Nicely made. I can’t feel any magic from it, but the craftsmanship is impressive…”</p>

  <p>To be honest, I had no idea what it was, and I couldn’t detect even a hint of magic. But it had to be a fine item.</p>

  <p>The shopkeeper saw what Yunyun had picked up and practically yelped.</p>

  <p>“I-I didn’t expect you to take an interest in that…! You two have a good eye… That one is only here to draw customers in. It’s not for sale, but… Well. I like the look of you two, so fine. I’ll sell it.”</p>

  <p>“Ooh, incredible!”</p>

  <p>The two men behind us gasped in awe.</p>

  <p>“Sounds like a bargain, Yunyun.”</p>

  <p>“Yeah, Megumin. I didn’t expect to find something like this in a beginner town.”</p>

  <p>We said it loudly enough for everyone to hear, then paid for the item and left under a chorus of jealous stares.</p>

  <p>The moment we rounded the corner, we both squatted down at the same time.</p>

  <p>“Megumin, what even is this? Was 100,000 eris really a good price for this thing?”</p>

  <p>“How would I know? I should be asking you! This looks like a piggy bank no matter how you slice it, but… it must have some hidden power…”</p>

  <p>We were whispering about what possessed us to buy it when…</p>

  <p>“Ahh, thanks for the work. Here’s your cut.”</p>

  <p>“Sorry we’re always taking your money like this, old man.”</p>

  <p>“Still, you’ve got talent. I didn’t think Crimson Demons would fall for it that easily.”</p>

  <p>We heard that conversation from just around the corner.</p>

  <p>“Crimson Demons have enormous mana and high intelligence.”</p>

  <p>That was the shopkeeper’s voice.</p>

  <p>“But did you know? They’re ridiculously easy to fool. Especially if you say things like ‘the jewel of my shop’ or ‘legendary whatever.’”</p>

  <p>As the three of them burst into laughter, Yunyun and I stepped out from around the corner.</p>

  <p>“But did you know? Crimson Demons have very short tempers.”</p>

  <p>“But did you know? Crimson Demons always rise to meet the expectations of anyone looking for a fight.”</p>

  <p>The three men bolted like startled rabbits, and Yunyun and I chased after them in a fury.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
