<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Continued Explosions Short Story: The Hardworking Thief Girl!</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Continued Explosions Short Story: The Hardworking Thief Girl!</h1>

  <p>Digital Short Story</p>
  
  <p>Intermediate Translator: lolihunter2 yukira</p>

  <p>Translator: Uranophane</p>

  <p>Editors: Deus-ex-machina, Keel the Swift</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: Continued Explosions Volume 1</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>While I was out for a walk, I ran into a bizarre duo.</p>

  <p>“Come to the Axis Church! Join the Axis faith!”</p>

  <p>Cecily, an Axis priest, was shouting her pitch at full volume.</p>

  <p>And right beside her…</p>

  <p>“Axis Church… Please join the Axis Church…”</p>

  <p>Chris stood there with a mountain of Axis flyers in her arms. She handed them out with a dead-eyed, hostage-like expression—as if Cecily had drafted her on the spot.</p>

  <p>“What are you two doing?”</p>

  <p>I walked up to them. Chris suddenly snapped to attention like she’d uncovered a state secret.</p>

  <p>“Oh! Megumin! We’re distributing invitations, as you can see! We’re also recruiting—would you mind helping? I’ll buy you lunch!”</p>

  <p>“Sure. But why is an Eris follower doing Axis recruiting?”</p>

  <p>Chris flinched, then went right back to dutifully handing flyers to passersby.</p>

  <p>“I was bored, so I stopped by their headquarters for fun. Cecily was ranting about how ‘Goddess Eris came down to the mortal world for no reason’ and ‘messed with the Axis faithful.’ After listening for a bit, I started to feel kind of sorry for them, so I decided I’d help out today.”</p>

  <p>How is she this gullible?</p>

  <p>“Axis people have the credibility of a used-car salesman. Take anything they say with a mountain of salt. Besides, Eris just dropped by the mortal world and caused a little commotion—it’s nothing you should be losing sleep over.”</p>

  <p>“I… I think I’m going to help them for now…”</p>

  <p>No idea why, but as long as she was fine with it, whatever.</p>

  <p>“Okay, so how do I help? Stuff flyers into every mailbox in town?”</p>

  <p>“No! Since we’ve got Megumin with us for once, we’re going with the big strategy, right here and now!”</p>

  <p>Cecily’s grin turned downright villainous.</p>

  <p>—On the streets of Axel…</p>

  <p>I cried out to the pedestrians for help.</p>

  <p>“Help! Someone, please! My poor kitty was attacked by those evil Eris fanatics, and she’s barely hanging on!”</p>

  <p>I held Chomusuke in place as she frantically tried to dash circles around my legs.</p>

  <p>Then Chris, dead-eyed with sheer resignation, recited her line:</p>

  <p>“M-my Eris instincts told me this black cat is actually a demon in disguise. So, in Lady Eris’ name, I had to put it down. I regret nothing. If you need help, the Eris Church can provide it…”</p>

  <p>The moment Chris finished reading her script, Cecily leapt out of the crowd.</p>

  <p>“Stop right there, you Eris scum! You bully a weak, helpless girl’s pet, then force her to bring it to the Eris Church ‘for treatment,’ where you bleed her dry! The police might tolerate schemes like that, but Lady Aqua will not!”</p>

  <p>Immediately, the crowd started whispering.</p>

  <p>“Isn’t that Kazuma’s girlfriend Megumin? What kind of new scam is this?”</p>

  <p>“Even Chris is in on it… I thought she was the normal one.”</p>

  <p>“Don’t make eye contact. You’ll get dragged into something shady.”</p>

  <p>Yeah. They’d clearly had enough of our nonsense.</p>

  <p>“This is a problem. Megumin and Chris are both too well-known, so the act won’t fool anyone! My perfect plan—me, the beautiful Axis priest, reviving the kitty with divine power, making Megumin cry tears of gratitude, and having her join the Axis faith so everyone follows—has been—”</p>

  <p>“I said I’d help. I never said I’d join your church! And my acting skills aren’t nearly good enough for whatever masterpiece you’re imagining!”</p>

  <p>Right then…</p>

  <p>I felt someone behind me and turned around—</p>

  <p>“What are you all doing?”</p>

  <p>Kazuma and Darkness were standing there, apparently on their way back from buying dinner.</p>

  <p>They both wore complicated expressions as they looked at Chris with genuine pity.</p>

  <p>“N-n-no, Darkness! It’s not what it looks like! Let me explain, Assistant! This was to make up for the loss of faith caused when Goddess Eris visited our world!”</p>

  <p>Darkness gently put a hand on Chris’ shoulder. Kazuma gave her a bitter smile.</p>

  <p>“Chris… You can talk to us. So please don’t do stupid things like this. Rely on me a little more, okay?”</p>

  <p>“I’ll help too. So please stop sabotaging your position as our one ‘normal person’—a job you barely qualify for as it is.”</p>

  <p>“It’s not like that! Let me explain, you two! Please don’t look at me like that!”</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
