<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>The Innocent Laugh of a Seedling</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>The Innocent Laugh of a Seedling</h1>

  <p>Translator: Cannongerbil</p>

  <p>Editors: Ulti</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 14</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>“You know, I’ve been thinking about this for a while… Maybe monsters aren’t born vicious. Maybe they just don’t have a choice if they want to survive in a world this harsh.”</p>

  <p>Yunyun said that while staring down at the potted plant in Megumin’s house.</p>

  <p>Yes. The very same pot the Tranquility Girl was planted in.</p>

  <p>“Yeah… We’re taught monsters are enemies of humanity that need to be wiped out, but when you look at her, it’s hard to believe that…”</p>

  <p>Megumin smiled softly as the Tranquility Girl waved at the sun and giggled happily.</p>

  <p>Just then, Aqua—who was watering her—said,</p>

  <p>“Well said, you two. Just look at that innocent smile. My all-seeing eyes declare she’s pure as the driven snow.”</p>

  <p>“Hearing you say that somehow makes her feel more suspicious.”</p>

  <p>While Aqua and I were talking, the little plant-girl reached out toward Yunyun.</p>

  <p>When her tiny hand wrapped around Yunyun’s outstretched finger, the seedling burst into delighted laughter.</p>

  <p>“Aqua, I’ve decided. I’m going to take care of her. No—I’m adopting her. She’ll become the next village chief after me.”</p>

  <p>“Are you even hearing yourself? I’m making fertilizer for her out of today’s leftovers, so get over here and help.”</p>

  <p>“Me too! I’ll go make some more clean water!”</p>

  <p>With that, the three of them left, abandoning me alone with the seedling.</p>

  <p>I reached out and gently patted the doll-sized girl’s head with my finger.</p>

  <p>“To think I’d end up taking care of a Tranquility Girl… We’ll plant you deep in the forest near the village, so hang in there. You won’t be able to feed off humans anymore, but I’m sure you’ll… figure something out…”</p>

  <p>“Like hell I will.”</p>

  <p>…</p>

  <p>“What did you just say?”</p>

  <p>I definitely heard that.</p>

  <p>Narrowing my eyes, I stared down at the seedling.</p>

  <p>But she just laughed like nothing had happened.</p>

  <p>“You said something terrible just now, didn’t you? Hey. Say something.”</p>

  <p>“Tch.”</p>

  <p>…</p>

  <p>“Hey, Kazuma, I heard this from the villagers. Apparently the northeastern part of the forest has the least human activity, so… W-what are you doing!?”</p>

  <p>“Let go, Darkness! I’m going to rip this thing out of the pot and burn it!”</p>

  <p>“What are you saying!? Aqua will cry!”</p>

  <p>Darkness had to show up at the worst possible moment, so I couldn’t deal with the problem on the spot.</p>

  <p>“Listen, Darkness. This thing is evil from the moment it’s planted. It said something dangerous, and it even knows how to click its tongue.”</p>

  <p>“Kazuma… I know you’re still wary of the Tranquility Girl, but think about it. It’s barely been two weeks since she sprouted. A human baby couldn’t talk yet, and there’s no way she’s learned words already.”</p>

  <p>“But I heard it! It definitely said ‘Like hell I will.’ And then it clicked its tongue!”</p>

  <p>“What’s all this noise? Clicking your tongue?”</p>

  <p>“We should name her… Her skin is white, so how about… Shiro?”</p>

  <p> </p>

  <p>Just then, Megumin and Yunyun came back carrying a plate piled with crushed vegetable scraps.</p>

  <p>“Megumin, listen! That seedling talked—and it clicked its tongue!”</p>

  <p>The three of them stared at me with concern.</p>

  <p>“Um… Kazuma, biologically speaking, something that small wouldn’t even have the brain structure needed to memorize words…”</p>

  <p>“Oh, sure, but we live in a world where vegetables jump around and fly. Hey! Say it again!”</p>

  <p>Their expressions soured as I challenged the seedling again.</p>

  <p>“She’s been watered with pure holy water, you know? Seriously, Kazuma, what are you doing? Even if she’s cute, this prank is a little…”</p>

  <p>“Don’t get it twisted! She talked and she clicked her tongue! Why won’t any of you believe me!?”</p>

  <p>Aqua gently put her hand on my shoulder.</p>

  <p>“Kazuma… You’re probably tired. You’ve been waking up early even though you’re used to sleeping in. It’s fine—just rest until evening.”</p>

  <p>“Don’t you give me that look, too! Dang it, this is your fault! Now everyone thinks I’m crazy!”</p>

  <p>As I started lecturing the seedling, I could feel the others inching away while whispering among themselves.</p>

  <p>Every so often, I’d catch words like “hospital” and “weird behavior,” which was… not reassuring.</p>

  <p>…Fine. Don’t blame me when something bad happens.</p>

  <p>Just then—</p>

  <p>“What’s going on, big bro?”</p>

  <p>Right as I was about to give up, Komekko wandered over, curious.</p>

  <p>“Oh, Komekko… Nothing. This seedling has an attitude problem, but nobody believes me.”</p>

  <p>I braced myself for her to give me the same look as everyone else, but she simply leaned closer to the seedling.</p>

  <p>“…Looks tasty.”</p>

  <p>“Eep!”</p>

  <p>…Even in another world, kids are just as cruel as ever.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
