<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>The Legendary Witch</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>The Legendary Witch</h1>

  <p>Translator: Ulti</p>

  <p>Editors: Cannongerbil, Deus Ex Machina, Keel the Swift</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 12</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>On this day…</p>

  <p>“Here you go, Kazuma. Black tea and some cookies. These are Aqua’s favorite.”</p>

  <p>I’d stopped by Wiz’s shop to see if anything interesting was going on, and I was relaxing with tea and snacks.</p>

  <p>“Sorry you have to deal with Aqua every day… Wow, this tea is great. You must’ve used good leaves. I’m practically a celebrity at this point, so I know quality when I taste it.”</p>

  <p>“S-sorry, but I can only afford the cheapest black tea for the shop…”</p>

  <p>Oops. Looks like I still had a long way to go before I could call myself a celebrity with a straight face.</p>

  <p>“I see. So it’s all about the person brewing it. Nice work, Wiz. If the shop ever goes under, you can always come work for me as a maid.”</p>

  <p>“Please don’t say things like that, Kazuma! B-but… if it really came to that, I might take you up on the offer…”</p>

  <p>I was enjoying the peaceful moment with Wiz. Then…</p>

  <p>“There you are, Kazuma! Big news! Huge news!”</p>

  <p>The shop door slammed open, shattering our calm in an instant.</p>

  <p>Two breathless Crimson Demons burst in, their red eyes shining with excitement.</p>

  <p>“Sorry to barge in! Um, we were researching mages who might become our future rivals, and…”</p>

  <p>Megumin and Yunyun said at the same time,</p>

  <p>“The Ice Witch is in this city!”</p>

  <p> </p>

  <p>“She led a party that aimed to be known as the strongest adventurer group. Even though she isn’t a Crimson Demon, she’s an absurdly skilled mage who can use all kinds of spells, including advanced magic. They say she slaughtered monsters and Demon King’s Army soldiers without mercy—even when they begged for their lives. That’s why people call her the Ice Witch.”</p>

  <p>As Megumin delivered that with a dead-serious expression, Wiz covered her face with both hands and started trembling.</p>

  <p>Your ears are turning red, Ice Witch.</p>

  <p>“So… what happened to her? You don’t even know who she is, do you?”</p>

  <p>Sure, I said that—but I’d only learned about the legendary Ice Witch myself not too long ago.</p>

  <p>Aqua would’ve known too, back when Wiz and Vanir were telling us about their past adventures. Unfortunately, listening while eating snacks was apparently too difficult for her, because she fell asleep halfway through.</p>

  <p>“We know she risked her life to challenge one of the Demon King’s generals… and then she vanished. The Adventurers Guild sealed her name and personal details, so all we know is that she’s a woman.”</p>

  <p>After Yunyun finished, Wiz slumped forward onto the table.</p>

  <p>I leaned closer and whispered,</p>

  <p>“Hey—why don’t they know it’s you? You were famous, right?”</p>

  <p>“The people in this town only know I was in a high-level party. And… even if Megumin’s story is a little exaggerated, it’s not exactly wrong, so I’m worried they might get scared of me…”</p>

  <p>While we whispered, Megumin cut in, practically vibrating.</p>

  <p>“What are you two whispering about!? The Ice Witch is in this town, you know!? The Ice Witch!”</p>

  <p>“Why are you two so fixated on her? What would you even do if you met her—ask for an autograph?”</p>

  <p>“‘Ice Witch’ is such a cool title! I can’t just ignore her! I want to challenge her and see whether she’s really better than a Crimson Demon!”</p>

  <p>Megumin declared.</p>

  <p>“I-I don’t really agree with that, but… I am curious what kind of person she is…”</p>

  <p>Wiz, on the verge of tears, looked at me and shook her head.</p>

  <p>She really didn’t want anyone to connect the dots.</p>

  <p>I wanted to ask why she’d told that story to Aqua—the world’s loudest gossip—if secrecy mattered that much, but this wasn’t the time.</p>

  <p>“I’m sure the Ice Witch came to this town because she wanted a quiet, peaceful life. Please leave her alone.”</p>

  <p>“R-right…! And I heard the Ice Witch is really scary!”</p>

  <p>Wiz backed me up, but having to talk about herself like that must’ve stung more than she expected, because her eyes were already watering.</p>

  <p>“I-is that so…? As a Crimson Demon, I really wanted to settle this…”</p>

  <p>“H-hey, Megumin—Wiz has good common sense, so maybe we should listen to her. I’m sure that rumor is true…”</p>

  <p>It kind of sounded like Yunyun was implying I didn’t have good common sense, but I decided to let it go.</p>

  <p>“What rumor are you talking about? It was probably exaggerated, right?”</p>

  <p>Wiz nodded vigorously at my words.</p>

  <p>“Because all the other party members paired off and left her single, the Ice Witch cursed the world and tried to storm the Demon King’s castle on a suicide mission…”</p>

  <p>“I heard she went on a monster-killing spree to vent because she couldn’t get a boyfriend. Either way…”</p>

  <p>Both Crimson Demons turned to the crying Wiz and delivered the finishing blow.</p>

  <p>“They say she must be really ugly if even her own party passed her over—hence the scary nickname…”</p>

  <p> </p>

  <p>Later that day, word that the rumored Ice Witch ran a certain magic shop in Axel spread through the guild.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
