<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>The Lap Pillow of the Fake Shopkeeper</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>The Lap Pillow of the Fake Shopkeeper</h1>

  <p>Gamers short story</p>

  <p>Translator: Cannongerbil</p>

  <p>Editors: Ulti, Xenthur</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 13</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>What the hell is going on?</p>

  <p>“Why would you do this, Vanir!? How do we get this off!? (I didn’t think you’d resist in such a bizarre way! This is my first time possessing a lich, so I didn’t expect this at all. Since it’s come to this, why don’t you just leave your body and spirit in my care and let me run the shop?) Absolutely not! Who knows what you’d do to my body if I let you have your way!”</p>

  <p>Aqua and I had come to Wiz’s Magic Item Shop to kill some time, and we walked in on this scene…</p>

  <p>“Hey, what kind of game are you two playing? Looks fun.”</p>

  <p>“Ah, Aqua! Actually… (If it isn’t the troublesome goddess who only shows up when she can cause problems. As you can see, we’re extremely busy, so please go home.)”</p>

  <p>Hearing Wiz say that, Aqua’s jaw dropped.</p>

  <p>Well—more accurately, those were Vanir’s words, coming out of Wiz’s mouth.</p>

  <p>“Y-you…! I know you’ve been giving me extra tea and snacks lately, but don’t think that excuses that tone!”</p>

  <p>“C-calm down, Aqua! You need to look closely, that was— (As if a lich like me would ever try to curry favor with a goddess in the first place. Also, the tea I served you before was all expired stock. Didn’t you notice—) I’m going to get angry, Vanir!”</p>

  <p>Vanir tried to pour gasoline on the fire, but after that exchange even Aqua had figured out what was happening.</p>

  <p>“So, Wiz, you’re a lich, right? How did you let some devil take over your body that easily? And you—creepy devil—do you really like Wiz that much? You seriously want to cling to her that badly?”</p>

  <p>Vanir’s mask was currently plastered to Wiz’s face.</p>

  <p>Just like when he possessed Darkness, it looked like the two of them were fighting for control from the inside.</p>

  <p>“Even if you say that— (If I had to possess someone, I’d obviously prefer a better, more obedient vessel!) In any case, Vanir—hey, hold on! You can’t say that after you suddenly possessed me!”</p>

  <p>“Okay, I’m lost. Explain this one at a time… Seriously, what happened?”</p>

  <p>Nothing was going to move forward if they kept doing that, so we interrupted and made them explain from the beginning.</p>

  <p>“Well… Vanir said he wanted to sell a new ‘product,’ but… (A shop where the proprietor provides lap pillows and ear cleanings. Does this shopkeeper not look like she’s overflowing with kindness and curves? So I surveyed adventurers: ‘If a shop like this existed, would you visit?’ More than fifty percent said they’d become regulars, thirty percent said ‘hurry up and open already,’ and twenty percent said they wanted lap pillows available for afternoon naps as well. The results were excellent.)”</p>

  <p>“Of course I’d become a regular! When do you open? Are you offering afternoon naps and ‘bed-warming’ services, too?”</p>

  <p>“Don’t encourage him, Kazuma! First of all, I’m cold, so my lap would be freezing. Second, it’s embarrassing! I can’t do that…! And anyway, the adventurers who answered that survey were just messing with him!”</p>

  <p>…Honestly, I could absolutely see people lining up for it.</p>

  <p>“So you tried to force Wiz into it… But Wiz is soft and gentle, so I doubt it would be a bad experience. Hey, let me try!”</p>

  <p>“Let Aqua try…? I don’t have a problem with that, but… I’ve never cleaned anyone else’s ears before, so…”</p>

  <p>As she said that, Wiz sat back on her heels, and Aqua immediately plopped her head onto Wiz’s lap.</p>

  <p>“…Hey, you’re doing pretty good for your first time. I might actually fall asleep like this… Ow, Wiz, that’s starting to hurt. You don’t have to dig that deep. Hey. Did you hear me? It hurts!”</p>

  <p>“What are you doing, Vanir!? I’m not letting you do whatever you want! (Hey, Wiz, stop getting in my way! This is the perfect chance! I won’t give up!)”</p>

  <p>And that’s how Aqua nearly took critical damage from an ear cleaning. Thanks to Wiz’s resistance, nothing serious happened.</p>

  <p>“Okay… I get how you got possessed, but why are you two stuck together?”</p>

  <p>“(Well, liches are fundamentally cursed existences. After possessing one, I ended up getting cursed too.) Don’t talk like I’m a cursed item!”</p>

  <p>Hmm…</p>

  <p>“Well, personally, I’m pretty interested in this lap pillow and ear cleaning business. What if we just… leave it like this?”</p>

  <p>“No! If I’m sharing a body with Vanir, I can’t even take a bath! (There’s no need to worry. I have zero interest in your naked body, so go about your business.) You’re tactless! Vanir is way too tactless! Aqua, can’t you use your power to think of some way to separate us!?”</p>

  <p>Seeing Wiz on the verge of tears, Aqua looked genuinely conflicted.</p>

  <p>“If I use purification magic until only one of you is left… does that count as ‘separating’?”</p>

  <p>“Please think of literally any other method! Kazuma is especially reliable at times like this—do you have any ideas!?”</p>

  <p>Even if you asked me out of nowhere, I didn’t exactly have a handbook for this.</p>

  <p>“Well, when a ring gets stuck on your finger, you can usually slip it off if you coat it with soap.”</p>

  <p>“Kazuma, I’m begging you, please take this seriously! (Why don’t you give up and open the lap pillow service? We’ll make money, and you can eat something more filling than your current meals.) No! Also, it’d be a huge problem if this continued. And besides… ever since this started, well… (Ah, I see. Don’t worry, young lady. I will do my best not to listen, so—) AAAAAAAAHHHH!”</p>

  <p>Thanks to Vanir’s completely unnecessary consideration, Wiz’s scream echoed through the shop.</p>

  <p> </p>

  <p>Later, we removed the mask easily after coating it with soap.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
