<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Continued Explosions Short Story: The Militant Princess’s Peacekeeping Activities</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Continued Explosions Short Story: The Militant Princess’s Peacekeeping Activities</h1>

  <p>From the Gamers First-print Limited Edition</p>
  
  <p>Translator: yuNS</p>

  <p>Editors: Deus-ex-machina, Keel the Swift</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Continued Explosions Volume 1</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>One afternoon…</p>

  <p>“I want to go on an adventure!”</p>

  <p>Iris announced the moment she arrived at our hideout. Yunyun had led her here after Iris snuck out of the castle like it was the most normal thing in the world.</p>

  <p>“What is this about? Honestly, sneaking out of the castle and traveling all the way to a distant town sounds like an adventure all on its own.”</p>

  <p>Today it was just Yunyun, Iris, and me.</p>

  <p>Which felt a little light on manpower for anything you could honestly call an “adventure.”</p>

  <p>“Let’s go, let’s go! Hey, Megumin—adventure!”</p>

  <p>“An annoying brat being annoying, as usual.”</p>

  <p>Megumin—weak to words like “companions” and “adventure”—immediately started making a fuss, and Iris clenched her fists and appealed to me.</p>

  <p>“Boss! The townspeople live under the constant threat of monsters! How can we justify loafing around every day when we have the power to make a difference!?”</p>

  <p>“That’s right! The power of the Crimson Demon clan should be used for a greater purpose!”</p>

  <p>The two of them were weirdly in sync today.</p>

  <p>“Weren’t you obsessed with playing ‘kick the can’ yesterday? Even though you had guests to meet that evening, you kept saying ‘I don’t want to go home’ and making Yunyun stay out with you.”</p>

  <p>Iris immediately turned bright red, while Yunyun looked away.</p>

  <p>But Iris, refusing to be deterred, pulled something out of her bag.</p>

  <p>“I’m over kick-the-can! After I got home, Claire played with me until midnight. More importantly—look at this!”</p>

  <p>She thrust a thick stack of papers at me.</p>

  <p>Not sure what else to do, I took the top page and skimmed it.</p>

  <p>“‘Around noon each day, a certain noise can be heard from the direction of the forest, but it has recently stopped. I’m concerned and would like someone to investigate.’ …Okay. And?”</p>

  <p>Iris leaned forward, eyes shining.</p>

  <p>“I don’t know what ‘a certain noise’ is, but doesn’t that seem suspicious? It feels like a bad omen…! Something scary might be living in the forest…! Let’s go uncover the culprit!”</p>

  <p>Hearing that, Yunyun spoke up in a small voice.</p>

  <p>“Isn’t that ‘noise from the forest’ just Megumin’s daily explosion? And isn’t that also why I’m able to meet up with Alice…?”</p>

  <p>“That’s probably it. I’ve been using my explosion magic near the capital every day, so it’s been a while since I did it outside Axel. So if we’re being honest, the culprit here is… you.”</p>

  <p>As Yunyun and I talked, Iris lowered her head like she was trying to hide her face.</p>

  <p>I didn’t pry, but judging by how red her ears were, I’d say she was embarrassed after confidently declaring it a “bad omen.”</p>

  <p>Still, Iris recovered quickly.</p>

  <p>“N-next! ‘Something has settled in the reservoir sometime during the summer. On nights when I can’t sleep, I like to swim there, but recently I saw some blue thing bobbing up and down in the water. It might be a monster, so please eliminate it.’ …A monster might be living in the middle of town! And in the reservoir that supplies our drinking water! We need to hurry and—”</p>

  <p>“That’s probably just Aqua. She goes out when she can’t sleep because it’s hot.”</p>

  <p>“Didn’t she float in the pond and take a nap the other day?”</p>

  <p>Iris had barely built up steam before we shut her down with the truth. She drooped again.</p>

  <p>Finally—now completely lacking confidence—Iris timidly moved on.</p>

  <p>“Then what about this… ‘Each night, the ghost of a lonely crimson-eyed girl peeks into Axel’s tavern window.’”</p>

  <p>Yunyun immediately let out a wail and covered her face with both hands.</p>

  <p>“I’m sorry! I just get really lonely at night, okay!? The tavern is always so lively, so I wander around there hoping someone will notice me…!”</p>

  <p>“I get it—you’re like a moth drawn to a flame—but as a fellow Crimson Demon, please stop! It’s embarrassing! Also, this is a beginner town. There aren’t that many monster incidents. The dangerous ones get dealt with systematically.”</p>

  <p>“Then let’s do what only we can do. If we can’t subjugate monsters, we’ll purge evil instead! Here’s a complaint from a merchant about a tyrant noble…”</p>

  <p>“‘A certain noble forcibly purchased my stock of medicinal slimes. They did pay for them, and they also made a donation to the Eris Church on behalf of the sick who were waiting, but it’s annoying, so please do something about it.’”</p>

  <p>“Oh, that’s probably about one of your subordinates named Lalatina.”</p>

  <p>Iris crushed the paper into a ball and hurled it across the room.</p>

  <p>“Oh, come on! Are the only people causing trouble the ones I know!? I feel like I finally understand what my big brother deals with. I’m seriously tempted to go back and give him a pep talk!”</p>

  <p>As Iris clutched her head in frustration, another sheet slipped out and fluttered down beside her feet.</p>

  <p>“You’re making a mess, so please stop… This is the last one, right?”</p>

  <p>I picked it up while Yunyun leaned in and read over my shoulder.</p>

  <p>“‘Around noon, a suspicious person was seen loitering instead of working, bringing toys to children in the park in an attempt to win them over.’”</p>

  <p>“Targeting children is a crime, right? Up until now, every report sounded like something one of my acquaintances would do—but I don’t think anyone I know is shameless enough for this. This time we’ll bring down justice…!”</p>

  <p>“‘The suspicious person was an adventurer with black hair and black eyes…’”</p>

  <p>“That’s Kazuma. He told me female adventurers were fawning over him on purpose, so he planned to show off his handmade toys to some pure-hearted kids and soak up the praise.”</p>

  <p>Iris didn’t leave the castle for a while after that.</p>

  <hr/>

  <p><em>Notes:</em></p>
  
  <p>“<em>Medicinal Slime</em>” is a reference to an event in “<em>Consulting with this Masked Devil!</em>” Chapter 3, Part 4</p>
  
  <p>Aqua swimming in the reservoir may be a reference to an event in “<em>Consulting with this Masked Devil!</em>” Chapter 2, Part 1</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
