<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>The One with Azure Lightning Behind Her</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>The One with Azure Lightning Behind Her</h1>

  <p>Translator: Cannongerbil</p>

  <p>Editors: Keel The Swift, Ulti</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 14</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>While I was wandering around the Crimson Demon Village, I found Aqua shadowboxing.</p>

  <p>“…What are you doing?”</p>

  <p>“Oh, Kazuma, what a coincidence. I ran into this gorgeous lady a little while ago, and she said, ‘Since you’re friends with Megumin, allow me to offer you a warning. Wind… Darkness… and a divine light… please remember these words.’ Then she disappeared right in front of me. I don’t get what any of it means, so I’ve been standing guard to make sure she can’t escape.”</p>

  <p>That’s the same trick the Crimson Demons showed us last time: refraction magic that makes it look like they teleported.</p>

  <p>“Sacred Break Spell!”</p>

  <p>“!?”</p>

  <p>As Aqua shouted the spell, I heard someone gasp and scramble out of the way.</p>

  <p>“See? You heard that, right? That little yelp when I pretended to cast something?”</p>

  <p>“I-I kind of feel bad for her, so cut it out…”</p>

  <p>Just then—</p>

  <p>“I look away from you two for one minute and you’re causing trouble again…”</p>

  <p>“Uh, try not to bully my people too much.”</p>

  <p>Darkness and Megumin had walked up behind us.</p>

  <p>“Hey, Darkness, there’s a pretty lady hiding around there, so go find her and catch her for me. I want to ask what she meant.”</p>

  <p>“Don’t worry, I’ll do it for you—”</p>

  <p>Darkness grabbed my collar before I could move.</p>

  <p>“Darkness, keep a tight hold on that man. Aqua, it’s a common tradition here to tell tourists some mysterious phrase and then vanish. There’s no deeper meaning, so let her go.”</p>

  <p>What an annoying tradition.</p>

  <p>“By the way, what are you two doing? Out for a walk?”</p>

  <p>“No, we’re… Actually, it’ll be faster to just show you.”</p>

  <p>Megumin pointed into the distance.</p>

  <p>“Yo, the one with azure lightning behind her! Morning. Back from Axel?”</p>

  <p>“Roaring Thunder Yunyun! Morning! How’s the outside world? Anything changed?”</p>

  <p>“A-Ah, good morning! Good morning! It doesn’t seem like much has changed!”</p>

  <p>Yunyun stood there, getting bombarded with greetings by every passing Crimson Demon.</p>

  <p>Probably from being called those titles, Yunyun’s face was beet-red, and tears clung to the corners of her eyes.</p>

  <p>“Kazuma, what do you think after seeing that?”</p>

  <p>“It looks like they’re bullying her.”</p>

  <p>Megumin frowned at my honest answer.</p>

  <p>“No, seriously. Look at Yunyun —she’s got everyone crowding around her.”</p>

  <p>I took another look…</p>

  <p>“Oh, Yunyun, that azure lightning behind you is crackling brightly today too!”</p>

  <p>“Roaring Thunder Yunyun, did you put on a little weight? You look… a bit more filled out…”</p>

  <p>“Please stop calling me that! And I didn’t get fat —I just grew up!”</p>

  <p>…</p>

  <p>“So? What do you think after seeing her stand there with that smug little frown while everyone fawns over her and calls her by her title!?”</p>

  <p>“I-Is that so? She doesn’t look like she’s enjoying it…”</p>

  <p>Apparently at her limit, Megumin marched over to Yunyun in the middle of the crowd.</p>

  <p>“Yunyun, you look awfully pleased having everyone call you such a cool title.”</p>

  <p>“What are you talking about!? Do I look happy right now!? Are your eyes made of glass!?”</p>

  <p>“They’re the same red ones you’ve got!”</p>

  <p>As if a rabid dog had just appeared, the Crimson Demons who’d surrounded Yunyun scattered in a hurry.</p>

  <p>“…Ah, I see. Megumin really can’t be honest. For all her complaining, she still went over to help Yunyun when she’s suffering under those embarrassing nicknames…”</p>

  <p>Darkness nodded at the sight of them and smiled warmly…</p>

  <p>“Megumin, you had a title back in Axel too!”</p>

  <p>“I couldn’t care less about some embarrassing title like that! Hey, ‘Azure Lightning,’ trade nicknames with me!”</p>

  <p>…</p>

  <p>“Do you really believe that?”</p>

  <p>“…Maybe not…”</p>

  <p>Far from Axel—</p>

  <p>“I don’t like my current title, but yours is…”</p>

  <p>“Fine, I’ll challenge you! And when I win, I’m taking your title for myself!”</p>

  <p>A very familiar scene was playing out—</p>

  <p>“Sorry, I don’t want your title, so I’m going to pass…”</p>

  <p>“W-What!? You’re the one who never stops badgering me to accept your challenges!”</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
