<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>The Same Old Town of Axel</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>The Same Old Town of Axel</h1>

  <p>Translator: Cannongerbil</p>

  <p>Editors: Striker</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 17</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>One afternoon.</p>

  <p>“Hey, Aqua, I need a favor.”</p>

  <p>I was happily napping in the backyard with Emperor Zell on my stomach when a NEET came to interrupt me.</p>

  <p>I cracked one eye open and whispered so I wouldn’t wake Emperor Zell,</p>

  <p>“…Can’t you see what I’m doing? I got sleepy after lunch, so I’m napping. Don’t wake me unless the world’s in trouble or the heavens are about to fall.”</p>

  <p>“If something like that were really happening, I wouldn’t bother coming to a simpleton like you.”</p>

  <p>How dare this man call a noble and beautiful goddess like me a simpleton?</p>

  <p>“You’re really lucky I’m in a good mood after stuffing my face, you shut-in NEET. If I weren’t, you’d be a sobbing NEET right now.”</p>

  <p>“Oh, you’ve got some nerve, Goddess of Naps. Want to be the Goddess of Tears instead?”</p>

  <p>After I sincerely apologized, the easily fooled NEET let out a sigh.</p>

  <p>“It’s nothing big. You can go back to your nap once you’re done.”</p>

  <p>“Then don’t bother me about it… I’m kidding, so don’t make that scary face. If you do anything horrible to me, Emperor Zell —who’s evolved into a high-level dragon— won’t just sit there.”</p>

  <p>I held up Emperor Zell, who’d evolved into a dragon after drinking some mysterious potion, while the low-level NEET picked up the furball sleeping at his feet.</p>

  <p>“If you’re going to use that chicken as a shield, I’ll use this cat —the natural enemy of chickens— as mine. Hey, why is she scared of a bird when she’s a cat?”</p>

  <p>The furball immediately started struggling in the NEET’s arms, like she was trying to say that picking a fight with Emperor Zell was a terrible idea.</p>

  <p>“Obviously a cat can’t stand up to a dragon. That little black furball fears Emperor Zell on instinct.”</p>

  <p>“Hey, Chomusuke, don’t you have any cat instincts? Even a chicken is looking down on you, you know. Are you sure you’re an evil god?”</p>

  <p>This delusional NEET just said something that sounded exactly like Megumin.</p>

  <p>…Well, it was true that this cat was pretty strange, between only baring her fangs at a goddess like me and her weird love of baths…</p>

  <p>“…Ah, I don’t have time to worry about Chomusuke right now. More importantly, Aqua, can you get in the bath?”</p>

  <p>…</p>

  <p>“So you finally reveal your true colors, you brutish NEET. You never see me as a woman, but now you’re telling me to shower before I meet you…!”</p>

  <p>“I’m going to smack you if you keep saying stupid stuff. It’s my turn to clean the bathroom today, but Darkness and Megumin came back earlier covered in oil and herbs, so it’s been a pain.”</p>

  <p>“What happened to those two? Are they trying to class-change into fried food?”</p>

  <p>I was genuinely curious what had led to this.</p>

  <p>“They went on a monster-hunting quest together. I’m sure it was something stupid, so I didn’t ask. Anyway, can you purify the bath water for me?”</p>

  <p>What is this man even talking about?</p>

  <p>“Do you think goddesses are detergent or something? If I’m going to bathe, I’d rather do it in a tub that’s been scrubbed clean.”</p>

  <p>“I’ll buy you a mug of ice-cold Crimson Beer after you’re done.”</p>

  <p>I decided to take a bath.</p>

  <p>“Hey, Aqua, you’re drinking something nice even though it’s only noon. Darkness isn’t around, so do you mind giving me a sip?”</p>

  <p>As I enjoyed my ice-cold beer after my bath, Megumin walked up to me.</p>

  <p>“This is my reward for cleaning the bathroom. In other words, I cleaned up after the two of you defiled it. If you want a sip, why don’t you start by apologizing for the mess?”</p>

  <p>“<i>Gurk</i>…! I never thought the day would come when Aqua would be cleaning up after me… But I do want a taste, so… sorry for the trouble, Aqua.”</p>

  <p>That was a rare, honest apology. She must really want a sip.</p>

  <p>Just then,</p>

  <p>“You can’t have that even if you apologize, Megumin! It’s still too early for you to be drinking alcohol! Hey, Aqua, listen to this! After we finished the monster hunt, Megumin found a patch of herbs and did her usual thing…”</p>

  <p>“W-What are you saying, Darkness!? You’re the one who was begging to keep that Oily Slime we found as a pet! Thanks to you, I ended up covered in oil too!”</p>

  <p>I sipped my beer as the two of them started bickering.</p>

  <p>Just then, I heard the angry voice of the housewife-NEET from the bathroom,</p>

  <p>“Aqua! You were messing around with the soap and shampoo again, weren’t you!? They’re all gone!”</p>

  <p>“And besides, Darkness, you’re way too obsessed with slimy stuff! The other day you were staring jealously at that piece of gelatinous slime I got. You really shouldn’t play with your food!”</p>

  <p>“Even I wouldn’t do that! My body just reacted when I heard the word ‘slime’…!”</p>

  <p>As the voices of these hopeless girls drifted through the calm afternoon, I enjoyed my mug of beer.</p>

  <p>“Hey, Aqua! I was planning to take a bath after everyone was clean! Go out and buy some shampoo and soap!”</p>

  <p>I once again managed to protect the peace of Axel—!</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
