<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>The Strongest Skill…</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>The Strongest Skill…</h1>

  <p>From the Toranoana First-Print Edition</p>

  <p>Translator: yuNS</p>

  <p>Editors: Keel the Swift, Deus-ex-Machina</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Special thanks: Frozen for some TL confirmations/help on this story.</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 11</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>The day we returned to the capital—</p>

  <p>“So then, I said this: ‘Before my explosion magic, a dragon is naught but a lizard…!’ After that, Iris made eye contact with me like she was saying, ‘I’ll concede this prey to you.’”</p>

  <p>“Oh my!”</p>

  <p>A banquet was held for us after we escorted Iris back to the castle.</p>

  <p>And of course, Iris was the main topic of conversation.</p>

  <p>Nobles and castle staff alike packed in to hear the details.</p>

  <p>“In that moment, I thought to myself, ‘Would it not be for the greater good to concede this grand accomplishment to Iris…?’ Of course, my Explosion magic could slay a dragon with ease, but it’s simply far too powerful. If I struck it with my grand magic, there’s no doubt the dragon’s valuable corpse would be reduced to nothing.”</p>

  <p>The nobles clustered around Megumin as she smoothly spun a tale of her own gallantry.</p>

  <p>“The purpose of our journey was to obtain the wealth needed to fight the Demon King’s army. If my opponent were merely a dragon, then I, a Crimson Demon, could defeat it without breaking a sweat. However, I ask you all—what meaning would there be in doing that!? Having found my answer, I decided I would only act if Iris missed her chance. And so I prepared my magic and watched, patiently.”</p>

  <p>“How wonderful!”</p>

  <p>“As one would expect of the wise Crimson Demons. To consider so many factors in an instant—truly superb!”</p>

  <p>Megumin had been spreading exaggerations for a while now. If I had to put a number to it, I’d say her stories were inflated by about nine times.</p>

  <p>In truth, Megumin had been completely flustered when the dragon appeared, but…</p>

  <p>“What happened next, Megumin? How was the dragon defeated? Please, continue!”</p>

  <p>Wine glasses in hand and clearly feeling it, the nobles eagerly urged Megumin on.</p>

  <p>Megumin put on a serious face and nodded.</p>

  <p>“‘Sacred · Explode.’ When Iris shouted that, the entire mountain was swallowed in light…! And before I knew it, the dragon was dead.” She explained bluntly.</p>

  <p>“That’s our Iris! Her talents stand out even among royalty!”</p>

  <p>“Wouldn’t it be best for Iris herself to personally set out and slay the Demon King?”</p>

  <p>“Before that, you’d have to convince His Majesty. You all know how much he dotes on Iris.”</p>

  <p>“Still, isn’t it because our final trump card, Iris, is in the capital that we can send most of our forces to the front lines without worry…?”</p>

  <p>“Either way, that power truly is what you’d expect from the world’s strongest skill. Belzerg’s security is practically guaranteed!”</p>

  <p>The listeners’ attention promptly drifted from Megumin to Iris.</p>

  <p>Megumin—who firmly believed Explosion was the strongest—looked annoyed as she listened. Then something seemed to click.</p>

  <p>“‘Sacred · Explode.’ Doesn’t that name remind you of something else?” Megumin said, wearing an expression full of confidence and triumph.</p>

  <p>“What does it remind me of…? ‘Sacred · Explode’ is the legendary sword skill that only the most talented member of the royal family—wielding the holy sword—can use,” one noble said with a nod.</p>

  <p>“No, wait.”</p>

  <p>A different man cried out as if he’d just realized something.</p>

  <p>“‘Sacred · Explode’… Isn’t ‘Explode’ eerily similar to ‘Explosion’? Maybe there’s some connection… Ah, probably not, huh…”</p>

  <p>Embarrassed by what he’d said, the man tried to pass it off as a joke.</p>

  <p>“That’s it!”</p>

  <p>Megumin snapped a finger-point at him.</p>

  <p>“You, sir, have keen insight. Yes, ‘Sacred · Explode’ and ‘Explosion’ have quite similar names, do they not? Do you all understand what that means?”</p>

  <p>“To be honest, I don’t think there’s any special meaning behind similar names.”</p>

  <p>“Shut up for a moment, Kazuma.”</p>

  <p>Megumin shut me down the moment I tried to butt in.</p>

  <p>“Allow me to tell you all this. The magic ‘Explosion’ is humanity’s penultimate attack, devised by a grand mage who devoted his life to opposing absolute beings beyond human understanding. If a dragon meets its end in one strike, then what of demons and gods? Even such mighty existences will be injured by this magic of unparalleled destruction.”</p>

  <p>The audience swallowed hard.</p>

  <p>“‘Explosion’ and ‘Explode.’ One is the ultimate magic, and the other is the ultimate strike. At this point, it would be strange not to see the connection, especially after all I’ve said… Yes—the creator of the ultimate strike revered this ultimate magic and invented the skill by drawing inspiration from it!”</p>

  <p>“I-Is that so?”</p>

  <p>“No, but the names are certainly similar…”</p>

  <p>“Simply put, this skill is a rip-off of ‘Explosion.’ Wouldn’t it be correct to say the dragon was defeated by a bargain-bin Explosion?”</p>

  <p>“What the heck are you saying?”</p>

  <p>“Shut up, Kazuma.”</p>

  <p>As I tried to play the straight man against Megumin’s nonsense, the nobles began to debate the controversy she’d just invented.</p>

  <p>I leaned in toward Megumin.</p>

  <p>“Oi, you just threw everyone into chaos with that! What are you going to do if the scholars start digging into it for real?”</p>

  <p>“Are you complaining about my conclusion as to what the strongest skill is? To begin with, the very fact that Explosion was compared to inferior skills is irritating. I don’t think I did anything wrong.”</p>

  <p>She was being incredibly defiant about it, too.</p>

  <p>“Remember when we visited the castle a while back? You got full of yourself and called yourself a grand mage, but when people pestered you to show advanced magic, all you did was panic. Who knows when that’ll happen again. Wait—you didn’t say anything else crazy like this somewhere, did you?”</p>

  <p>Megumin abruptly looked away.</p>

  <p>“…N-Nope, not at all.”</p>

  <p>“Oi, don’t tell me… what did you do this time? Was it in Axel? Or the village? Oh, I see—so it was the village, wasn’t it!? Now that I think about it, you sent some pretty exaggerated letters a while back, didn’t you!? So what the heck did you tell them this time!?”</p>

  <p>It wasn’t until several days after we returned to Axel that I learned what Megumin had written.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
