<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>The Strongest Devil Summoner of the Crimson Demons</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>The Strongest Devil Summoner of the Crimson Demons</h1>

  <p>Translator: Cannongerbil</p>

  <p>Editors: Ulti</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: Volume 14</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>After we got to the Crimson Demon Village, I had way too much time on my hands.</p>

  <p>There’s not much to do in a tiny village out in the sticks.</p>

  <p>Aqua and Darkness ran off somewhere, and Megumin dumped Komekko on me before disappearing into her chores.</p>

  <p>So Komekko and I ended up in the backyard together.</p>

  <p> </p>

  <p>“—Right, come play with Big Bro.”</p>

  <p>“Okay. Big Sis told me to play with Big Bro too.”</p>

  <p>That girl… she’d better remember this.</p>

  <p>…Oh, I thought of something. This would be devastating for someone as weirdly attached to her sister as Megumin.</p>

  <p>I pulled out the snacks I’d brought as a gift.</p>

  <p>“Hey, Komekko, between me and Megumin, who do you like more? I’ll give you this snack if you—”</p>

  <p>“I like Big Bro more than Big Sis.”</p>

  <p>Watching Komekko snatch the snack without a second thought, I briefly wondered if this was really okay.</p>

  <p>“A-Ah, never mind. Say that exact line to Megumin when she comes back, and I’ll give you another snack.”</p>

  <p>“Okay!”</p>

  <p>Good girl.</p>

  <p>Trying not to laugh, I crouched down to Komekko’s height.</p>

  <p>“All right, what should we play? House? Tag?”</p>

  <p>“Devil summoning.”</p>

  <p>…Is that why they’re called Crimson Demons?</p>

  <p>“Yeah, let’s save that for when you’re older, okay? You’re a Crimson Demon, so it’d be a real headache if you actually managed to call up a real devil.”</p>

  <p>“Okay. I got scolded by a little goblin when I summoned him without an offering.”</p>

  <p>“Megumin! Megumin! Get over here, now!”</p>

  <p>I yelled out in the direction of the house.</p>

  <p> </p>

  <p>“—Seriously, what’s the matter? I told you to keep Komekko company while I did the housework, didn’t I?”</p>

  <p>Megumin ran over, wiping her hands on her apron.</p>

  <p>“Now’s not the time for that. Your sister did something amazing. Hey, Komekko, tell Megumin what you just told me.”</p>

  <p>“I like Big Bro more than Big Sis.”</p>

  <p>“What are you saying!? Komekko, I’ll apologize if I did anything bad! It really hurts, so please stop!”</p>

  <p>No, not that line.</p>

  <p>“I said it, so give me another snack.”</p>

  <p>“Kazuma, I’d like a word with you. Come with me.”</p>

  <p>“That’s not it! I mean, yeah, I bribed her to say it, but that’s not why I called you. Your sister summoned a devil!”</p>

  <p>I rattled that off while handing the snack to Komekko.</p>

  <p>Megumin just sighed.</p>

  <p>“That’s something every Crimson Demon does at some point. When I was little, I used to perform the ritual to summon the God of Destruction.”</p>

  <p>“Don’t say that with that nostalgic look! …Wait, what!? You’re saying it’s fine!? But Komekko said something about a little goblin…”</p>

  <p>Megumin chuckled, probably amused by how panicked I looked.</p>

  <p>“Summoning devils requires an extremely difficult, delicate ritual. And even if you have the talent, it takes at least a decade of work to summon even an imp—the weakest kind of devil.”</p>

  <p>“Seriously?”</p>

  <p>But if that was true, then what was Komekko talking about…?</p>

  <p>“Besides, even if the ritual did work, a goblin isn’t a devil, so there’s no way one would be summoned. Komekko, don’t tease him too much, okay?”</p>

  <p>“Okay.”</p>

  <p>“All right, I’m going back to my chores. You two play together, okay?”</p>

  <p>After patting Komekko on the head, Megumin went back into the house.</p>

  <p>…So she was just messing with me…</p>

  <p>I’d thought I’d stumbled into yet another incident, but apparently it was just my imagination.</p>

  <p>Seriously, these two sisters never stop throwing me for a loop.</p>

  <p>“See? Your sister got mad because you said stuff like that. It’s a little hypocritical coming from me, but lying is bad, okay?”</p>

  <p>“I didn’t lie.”</p>

  <p>That stubborn streak was just like her sister’s.</p>

  <p>“But Megumin just said it, didn’t she? You can’t summon a goblin with a summoning ritual.”</p>

  <p>“But it came out. I offered it a cicada shell, but it scolded me. ‘Don’t call upon me without a proper offering. I’ll let you off this time, but don’t do it again,’ it said.”</p>

  <p>…</p>

  <p>That bad feeling came rushing back.</p>

  <p>“Hey. Can you describe that ‘goblin’ for me?”</p>

  <p>Just in case, I checked with Komekko…</p>

  <p>“It was really small and black, and it had claws, wings, and a tail.”</p>

  <p>“Megumin! Get over here, now!”</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
