<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>The True Aspect of Violence</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>The True Aspect of Violence</h1>

  <p>Translator: Uranophane</p>

  <p>Editors: Cannongerbil, Keel the Swift, Deus Ex Machina, Ulti</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: Volume 12</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>“Ow-ow-ow-ow…! Hey, why are you only ever willing to use your claws on me!? We’ve lived under the same roof for almost a year. Isn’t it about time we came to some kind of understanding?”</p>

  <p>One afternoon after lunch, Aqua had been bothering a napping Chomusuke on the sofa and earned herself a painful scratch across her fingers.</p>

  <p>Chomusuke’s always been a mystery, but lately she’s been picking up more and more humanlike habits.</p>

  <p>For one, she’s started insisting on baths and refusing to eat things like raw fish, leftovers, or pet food.</p>

  <p>“Ah! Stop right there! How dare you touch my biscuits!? I hope you’re prepared for the consequences of stealing a goddess’s offerings!”</p>

  <p>Case in point: she was currently stealing snacks from Aqua.</p>

  <p>“This cat really must hate you. Even I get along with her. Half the time I wake up from a nap with her asleep on my stomach.”</p>

  <p>“And why do you think that is? Because you’re both evil spirits, so you get along? Cats symbolize laziness, right? Maybe she’s drawn to the very embodiment of laziness.”</p>

  <p>She had the nerve to say that when she’s just as lazy as I am.</p>

  <p>As she spoke, Chomusuke—sprawled right on top of the plate of biscuits—suddenly turned and fixed Aqua with a sharp stare.</p>

  <p>“Oh? What’s this? Looks like you’re getting stared down. Let me translate her cat-speak for you: ‘While cats might symbolize laziness, our true duty is to bring humans happiness the lazy way—nya. And you, of all people, have the least right to talk about laziness—nya. From now on, stop calling yourself the Goddess of Water and start calling yourself the Goddess of Sloth—nya.’”</p>

  <p>“You’ve got some nerve saying that to my face! Fine. I’ll teach you—and that smug ‘nya nya nya’ furball—a lesson today!”</p>

  <p>As the Goddess of Violence charged, I scooped up Chomusuke and retreated.</p>

  <p>“Besides sloth, why don’t you add violence to your portfolio too, you mad goddess!? Lose the attitude already—oh? What is it? You got something to say?”</p>

  <p>At that, Chomusuke’s ears twitched, and she started nibbling my fingertip in protest.</p>

  <p>As half of the embodiment of sloth, she probably didn’t appreciate being scooped up on a whim.</p>

  <p>“Hey, Aqua, I’ve been meaning to ask you something. Do goddesses ‘grow’? Like, if you lost more than half your power, how would you get it back?”</p>

  <p>“Isn’t it obvious? It’s faith, of course. A goddess’s power comes from her beloved followers. And yes, goddesses grow too, you know. I’ve only stopped because my beauty and power are both maxed out.”</p>

  <p>Where does she get this confidence?</p>

  <p>Still, that was good to hear.</p>

  <p>Gaining faith would speed up the process.</p>

  <p>“…O goddess, hallowed be thy name…”</p>

  <p>“Hold on. Why are you suddenly praying to a cat? If you’re going to pray, do it to me.”</p>

  <p>As I clasped my hands and prayed to Chomusuke on the sofa—hoping she’d regain her power sooner—Aqua tugged at my shirt.</p>

  <p>At that moment,</p>

  <p>“Oh? Have my heartfelt prayers been answered?”</p>

  <p>“… …This thing… What does she find so attractive about Kazuma?”</p>

  <p>Chomusuke tentatively patted my knee as I bowed on the carpet, then hopped onto my lap and curled up.</p>

  <p>So she’d come to me on her own… Was she really drawn to some kind of lazy aura, like Aqua said?</p>

  <p>But she still recognizes Megumin as her owner, so I had my doubts…</p>

  <p>Then,</p>

  <p>“I’m back.”</p>

  <p>Megumin’s voice came from the front door.</p>

  <p>After doing her daily Explosion with Darkness, Megumin looked completely drained as she flopped onto the sofa.</p>

  <p>When Megumin saw Chomusuke sleeping on my lap, she—</p>

  <p>“Wah! How could my familiar sleep in a place like that, with no consideration for her master, who’s been out working!? And she’s been getting way too picky about food lately, too. A willful demon like that deserves punishment!”</p>

  <p>“Nyaaargh!”</p>

  <p>—swiftly grabbed Chomusuke and started playing with her.</p>

  <p>Chomusuke flailed in retaliation, her face getting pulled into all sorts of ridiculous expressions…</p>

  <p>Ah. So that’s how it is.</p>

  <p>This goddess really embodies more than just sloth…</p>

  <p>“…? What is it, Kazuma? Why are you staring at my face like that?”</p>

  <p>Megumin cocked her head as she continued to toy with Chomusuke.</p>

  <p>“S-So, Megumin… could I hold Chomusuke too?”</p>

  <p>“No. If you want to touch this furball that badly, go clean the bathroom for me today.”</p>

  <p>“Ugh! How unreasonable!”</p>

  <p>Lounging on the sofa, Megumin wore the smug expression of the master of a violent little black furball.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
