<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>The Undead Ruler of the Neighborhood Association</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>The Undead Ruler of the Neighborhood Association</h1>

  <p>From the Digital Edition</p>

  <p>Translator: yuNS</p>

  <p>Editors: Keel the Swift, Deus Ex Machina</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: Volume 4</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>“…Someone brought the real deal here.”</p>

  <p>It was almost dusk.</p>

  <p>“What is your problem!? Why are you always, always so stingy with me!? All you ever do is make my life harder, you penny-pinching Kazuma!”</p>

  <p>Right in the middle of the town graveyard, Aqua and I were arguing.</p>

  <p>“U-Um… You two, please… People are going to be here soon, so…”</p>

  <p>Wiz, who had been forcefully brought here by Aqua, tried to mediate the situation.</p>

  <p>This all began yesterday afternoon.</p>

  <p>Among the many requests at the guild was one asking for staff to help run a “test of courage” hosted by the neighborhood association. Aqua, of course, jumped at it, but…</p>

  <p>“Are you serious!? It’s just a neighborhood test of courage—don’t bring real undead into it! And what’s the point of a test of courage if nothing’s even scary!?”</p>

  <p>“What!? Are you saying Wiz isn’t scary!? Are you saying those stray ghosts over there are scarier!? Apologize! Apologize for hurting a lich’s pride! And Wiz, say something scary, please—make a scary face!”</p>

  <p>“A-Aqua, um… I’m actually more hurt by what you just said…”</p>

  <p>But what should we do now?</p>

  <p>I’m pretty sure the guild had hired some adventurers to play monsters, but at this rate, this idiot was going to ruin the whole thing.</p>

  <p>Perhaps noticing my worries-</p>

  <p>“Um… It’ll be fine. Leave it to me! Despite how I look, my title of undead ruler isn’t just for show. I’ll make sure to give them a proper scare!”</p>

  <p>Wiz declared this with a clenched fist.</p>

  <p>Soon the sun set, and the cemetery started to feel like a cemetery. That was when—</p>

  <p>“Perfect! No matter how you look at it, that’s a zombie!”</p>

  <p>“…You really are talented when it comes to weird side jobs.”</p>

  <p>Aqua nodded satisfied, drawing tools in hand.</p>

  <p>“I-Is it really that good? What does my face look like right now…? I did say I’d scare everyone, but I’d rather not overdo it…”</p>

  <p>Wiz—who Aqua had given Hollywood-level makeup—said that uneasily.</p>

  <p>“Well, if nothing else, your zombie makeup is good enough to give an old person a heart attack on sight.”</p>

  <p>“I-Is it really!?”</p>

  <p>“Oh, they’re coming! First, Kazuma and I will chat with the participants to lower their guard. Then when they least expect it, you jump out and scare them! Wiz, hide!”</p>

  <p>“Y-Yes, I understand!”</p>

  <p>Once Wiz hid behind a grave, Aqua and I headed over with cheery smiles to greet the participants.</p>

  <p>“—Huh? Kazuma took the job too?”</p>

  <p>I thought they were just participants, but it turns out that they’re just some familiar adventurers.</p>

  <p>Well that makes sense. It’d be pretty lonely if there was just one or two people doing this entire thing.</p>

  <p>“Yeah. Aqua and I were going to chat with the participants like this to lower their guard, and then…”</p>

  <p>Just as I was explaining-</p>

  <p>“B-B-BAHHHHHHH!”</p>

  <p>A voice that didn’t quite suit the dark cemetery sounded.</p>

  <p>According to plan, Wiz jumped from behind the shadow of the grave.</p>

  <p>“Ah, Wiz, it’s a misunderstanding. These guys are here to—”</p>

  <p>“Owaaaah!”</p>

  <p>Before I could finish explaining, the adventurers screamed in terror.</p>

  <p>Ah—wait…</p>

  <p>“I-It’s a zombie! The real deal!”</p>

  <p>“Damn, that sure gave me a scare, but we’re lucky it showed up before the participants!”</p>

  <p>“Ah, shoot, I didn’t bring my weapons.”</p>

  <p>All of the adventurers said some version of that.</p>

  <p>“…Huh?”</p>

  <p>Unable to grasp what was happening, Wiz kept her arms raised like a zombie.</p>

  <p>Then, one of the adventurers pointed to Aqua.</p>

  <p>“Nah, we don’t need our weapons. We’ve got Aqua here, don’t we?”</p>

  <p>“Ah.”</p>

  <p>“Wha—? W-What!? P-Please wait…”</p>

  <p>Ignoring Wiz-</p>

  <p>“Aqua, if you please.”</p>

  <p>“W-W-W-Wait! I-I’m not a zombie! Um, I’m not a zombie, so—”</p>

  <p>“T-That’s right! She’s not a zombie. It’s just some special makeup…”</p>

  <p>As Wiz and I hurriedly tried to resolve the misunderstanding, the adventurers tilted their heads in puzzlement.</p>

  <p>“…Oi, this zombie is talking.”</p>

  <p>“It even said it’s not a zombie… What’s this? Some kind of rare subspecies?”</p>

  <p>“I don’t really get it. I really don’t, but just in case…”</p>

  <p>The adventurers nodded their heads.</p>

  <p>“Since Turn Undead won’t hurt any living beings, Aqua, please go ahead.”</p>

  <p>“…U-Um… I’ll hold back a little, okay?”</p>

  <p>—That night, the “zombie” sprinting for its life through the cemetery turned the test of courage into a bustling, lively event.</p>

  <p>For some reason, Aqua got a special bonus.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
