<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Continued Explosions Short Story: The Value of a Young Girl Is…</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Continued Explosions Short Story: The Value of a Young Girl Is…</h1>

  <p>From the Toranoana First-print Limited Edition</p>
  
  <p>Translator: yuNS</p>

  <p>Editors: Deus Ex Machina, Keel the Swift</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Continued Explosions Volume 1</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>This happened back when I was eating lunch at the adventurers’ guild tavern.</p>

  <p>“Megumin, may I have a moment?”</p>

  <p>The adventurers’ guild receptionist—one of the guild’s many proud “assets”—suddenly called out to me.</p>

  <p>“What is it? I haven’t done anything that merits a lecture, have I?”</p>

  <p>At my response, she shook her head.</p>

  <p>“I’m not here to lecture you. I have a job I want you to take.”</p>

  <p>For them to tell me in person… the matter must be something worthy of my time.</p>

  <p>“If this is about monster subjugation, shouldn’t you talk to Kazuma instead? I’m not the type to hesitate when asked to do work, but he’ll definitely get mad if I accept some huge subjugation request out of nowhere.”</p>

  <p>“I didn’t come to you for a subjugation request. Megumin, I want you to assist with a certain magical experiment.”</p>

  <p>—This nation has facilities known as “Magic Research Institutes.”</p>

  <p>As the name suggests, they work day and night to develop new spells, increase magical potency, shorten required chants, investigate the links between monsters and magic, and a whole range of other research.</p>

  <p>And there was one institute on the outskirts of Axel, but…</p>

  <p>“I see. In other words, my awe-inspiring abilities and nearly endless pool of magical power left a deep impression on you, and you wish to learn the secret behind my might? That must be it.”</p>

  <p>“Not quite. What we want to learn is information regarding the Crimson Demon Clan.”</p>

  <p>The researcher replied in a flat, emotionless tone.</p>

  <p>Crimson Demons were originally modified humans from a technologically advanced nation.</p>

  <p>The nation has long since perished, so regrettably, the techniques and technologies used to perform this modification have all been lost.</p>

  <p>If they could replicate even a fraction of that technology, it would give them a new means of fighting the Demon King’s army. That was why they’d begun researching the Crimson Demon Clan.</p>

  <p>So as requested, I changed into a simple white dress and stepped into the middle of a wide room.</p>

  <p>I don’t know what kind of research this was, but I can’t help but be bothered by the fact that all the researchers were female.</p>

  <p>“Now then, Megumin, could you tell us what you can about the Crimson Demon Clan from the beginning?”</p>

  <p>A researcher holding a notebook asked while pushing up her glasses.</p>

  <p>“We Crimson Demons are all born with high reserves of magical power. As you already know, we’re also given cool names unlike the masses—plus a code number.”</p>

  <p>The researcher who had been taking notes in a loud manner abruptly came to a halt.</p>

  <p>“…Ignoring the part about ‘cool names,’ this is the first I’ve heard of code numbers. What exactly are they? Does every member get their own unique number?”</p>

  <p>“No, you’re mistaken. As you can see here, it’s something we’re all born with…”</p>

  <p>Saying that, I rolled up my dress so that they would be able to get a fleeting glance at the number.</p>

  <p>Generally speaking, this is something I don’t want anyone else to see.</p>

  <p>Because something like this—something that reminds everyone we’re modified humans—should stay secret…</p>

  <p>“That thing on your butt is what that weirdly named hero called a ‘barcode,’ yes?”</p>

  <p>“I see. Who would’ve thought Crimson Demons would have barcodes on their butts.”</p>

  <p>“Is the position fixed? Or are you the only person with a barcode on her butt, Megumin?”</p>

  <p>“Excuse me, could we please leave the matter of my butt aside? If not, I’m leaving.”</p>

  <p>The researchers quickly fell silent.</p>

  <p>“…I’ll continue. As suggested by our clan’s name, every Crimson Demon is born with a pair of crimson eyes. We also strongly prefer the colors black and red, and our personalities tend to be on the belligerent side. Since we were created for battle, you could say we’re instinctively primed to pick fights.”</p>

  <p>The researchers loudly scribbled on their notepads. One of them raised her hand to speak.</p>

  <p>“Is the fact that your panties are black also a result of this instinctual priming? Also, since you have a petite, kid-sized build, that can’t be the only thing you’re ‘overreaching’ for, can it?”</p>

  <p><em>[TL Note: 背伸び (Overreaching) can also stand for ’tip-toeing (to appear taller)‘]</em></p>

  <p>“We’re discussing instincts, so could we please not talk about the color of my underwear? I think it’s about time for me to go home, isn’t it?”</p>

  <p>Just what kind of research were they doing here?</p>

  <p>In any case, the questioning phase ended soon after, and we moved on to measuring my magical power and physical abilities.</p>

  <p>“—As expected of a Crimson Demon, I’ve never seen magical power values this abnormal…”</p>

  <p>“Those ridiculously powerful adventurers with weird names are exceptions, but these numbers are around their level, aren’t they?”</p>

  <p>After measuring my magic power, the researchers began to make a fuss.</p>

  <p>Despite having such a high reserve of magic power, people were usually unimpressed, so this was a bit of a pleasant change.</p>

  <p>“Any more experiments? Any more questions? If the pay is good, I don’t mind cooperating,” I called out, in a good mood.</p>

  <p>One of the researchers murmured, “If that’s the case…” and raised her hand.</p>

  <p>“There’s a ‘certain magic tool’ in the capital. Would you be willing to test it? Those weirdly named people brought it in, but we never got the chance to test it, so I completely forgot it existed.”</p>

  <p>“It’s a little unsettling to be the test subject for an unused magic tool, but as long as it doesn’t hurt me, I don’t really mind…”</p>

  <p>“No, it won’t harm the body in the slightest. Remember that ‘barcode’ we discussed earlier? From what I understand, this tool can read the contents of a barcode.”</p>

  <p>I stopped moving to process the information.</p>

  <p>“Would you be okay with us *beep*-ing the barcode on your butt, Megumin?”</p>

  <p>—Of course, I didn’t go the next day.</p>

  <hr/>

  <p><em>Notes:</em></p>
  
  <p>Crimson Demons are born with the barcode on their bodies, in case that was unclear.</p>
  
  <p>The ’<em>beep</em>‘ at the end is a literal beep, imitating the sound of a barcode reader.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
