<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>The Winter Moon Is…</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>The Winter Moon Is…</h1>

  <p>Toranora special short story</p>

  <p>Translator: Cannongerbil</p>

  <p>Editors: Xenthur, Ulti</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 13</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>The two Crimson Demons cautiously scanned the clearing on the outskirts of town before whispering to each other.</p>

  <p>“You’re here, Megumin. Any problems? Nobody saw you, right?”</p>

  <p>“Don’t worry. I made sure no one was tailing me, and I also asked what everyone back at home planned to do today. Kazuma said he didn’t want to be woken up before evening. Aqua went out to the river to collect interesting-looking pebbles. And even Darkness—fresh off house arrest—went to supervise the crew filling in the nearby craters the Explosion Devil created last night.”</p>

  <p>Lip Reading really comes in handy at times like this.</p>

  <p>Regardless of the distance, as long as I can see their mouths, I can follow their conversation.</p>

  <p>“Make sure you properly apologize to Darkness after this, okay?”</p>

  <p>“Forget after this. Ever since last night, she’s been lecturing me nonstop—right up until this morning. I denied it and demanded proof, but that only made it worse.”</p>

  <p>“I don’t know why you’d deny it that hard, but never mind. Let’s hurry up and finish while no one’s here.”</p>

  <p>With that, Yunyun started stacking bricks into a simple stove.</p>

  <p>Megumin then placed the pot she carried with her on top of the stove, and brought out something from it.</p>

  <p>“This color and fragrance… I can’t believe you managed to get your hands on this…”</p>

  <p>Yunyun showed a very intoxicated expression after taking a whiff from the bottle.</p>

  <p>“It’s top-shelf stuff, if I do say so myself. Heh-heh… This is going to be the greatest ritual ever!”</p>

  <p>Seemingly satisfied, the two nodded at each other before throwing the items they brought with them into the pot and lighting a fire underneath it.</p>

  <p>“Heh-heh-heh… Right. Now all that’s left is the secret technique passed down among the Crimson Demons…”</p>

  <p>I crept up behind Megumin as she muttered strange things while stirring the pot and asked,</p>

  <p>“What secret technique?”</p>

  <p>“AHHHHH!”</p>

  <p>The two of them screamed in surprise after hearing my voice and hastily turned around.</p>

  <p>“K-K-K-Kazuma, don’t scare me like that! No, wait, that’s not it—what are you doing here!?”</p>

  <p>“This is bad, Megumin! Someone saw what’s in the pot!”</p>

  <p>I don’t know what kind of suspicious ritual they were performing, but the two of them flew into a panic after seeing me.</p>

  <p>“Damn… Now that you’ve seen it, we have no choice. Steel yourself, Yunyun.”</p>

  <p>“H-How did this…?”</p>

  <p>“Hey, wait—you’re not about to do something dangerous, are you!? If it’s some top-secret Crimson Demon ritual, I can pretend I didn’t see anything. Let’s calm down and talk this through!”</p>

  <p>As I slowly backed away, the two of them looked at each other and nodded.</p>

  <p>“…Right. Why don’t you give us a hand, Kazuma? We’ll give you a portion of the secret Crimson Demon rabbit hot pot if you do.”</p>

  <p>“Yeah, it’s a secret, but it can’t be helped if you saw it. Kazuma, can you help stir the pot?”</p>

  <p>…</p>

  <p>“Wait, rabbit hot pot? You snuck out here and did all that cloak-and-dagger stuff just to make hot pot? I thought you were summoning some evil god or something.”</p>

  <p>“What are you talking about, Kazuma? We don’t need stuff like evil gods. We’re going moon-viewing after this. It’s the best night of the year for it.”</p>

  <p>…Moon-viewing?</p>

  <p>“Isn’t this more of an autumn thing? It’s freezing.”</p>

  <p>“Kazuma, the colder it is, the clearer the air. The moon looks more beautiful.”</p>

  <p>I see. Yeah, I have heard that you can see more stars during winter.</p>

  <p>However…</p>

  <p>“I’m surprised. The Crimson Demons are about as far from ‘aesthetics’ and ‘elegance’ as it gets, and you still have a moon-viewing tradition…”</p>

  <p>“Hey, wait, what do you think Crimson Demons are, exactly?”</p>

  <p>“There are artists among the Crimson Demons too! And we do things like picnics and hikes, you know!?”</p>

  <p>Ignoring the two of them, I started stirring the stuff in the pot.</p>

  <p>“Anyway, why rabbit hot pot?”</p>

  <p>“We’re not totally sure either. Apparently a famous Crimson Demon once said that talking about the moon makes you think of rabbits, or something like that.”</p>

  <p>Guess it’s the same old story. This world really does have a lot of warped Japanese legends.</p>

  <p>—The sun sank beyond the horizon, and a beautiful moon slowly rose into the sky.</p>

  <p>“Well, I think we can start moon-viewing now. Are you two ready?”</p>

  <p>“Yeah. I’ve practiced a lot for this day.”</p>

  <p>“It’s really cold, so I’d like to hurry up, finish my hot pot, and go home… And what do you mean, practice?”</p>

  <p>Yunyun seemed to have said something strange while I was distracted by the delicious smell wafting from the hot pot.</p>

  <p>“All right, we’re starting. Yunyun, make sure you follow my lead.”</p>

  <p>And just like that, the two Crimson Demons started howling at the moon.</p>

  <p>“What are you two doing!? I don’t get it at all! Are you trying to become one with nature!? Do Crimson Demons have werewolf blood too!?”</p>

  <p>“Moon-viewing obviously involves howling. Come on, Kazuma, join us!”</p>

  <p>“It’s embarrassing at first, but it’s really fun once you get used to it. It’s like working together with companions…”</p>

  <p>No, this isn’t the moonwatching I wanted to experience!</p>

  <p>“Look, Kazuma… isn’t the moon beautiful…”</p>

  <p>“Yeah, that’s a very famous line in my country, but with Yunyun howling next to me, I can’t feel even a shred of romance right now!”</p>

  <p>The beautiful moon shone brightly in the sky on this cold winter night.</p>

  <p>The Crimson Demon moon-viewing ceremony continued until a pair of patrolling guards came by to scold them—</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>[TL Note: The phrase “Tsuki ga Kirei desu ne” (“Isn’t the moon beautiful?”) is a famous Japanese way to say “I love you.” It’s attributed to Meiji-era novelist and teacher Natsume Sōseki, based on the idea that two people in love don’t need direct words to convey their feelings.]</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
