<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Consulting with this Masked Devil! - Today As A Harem Consultant</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Consulting with this Masked Devil! - Today As A Harem Consultant</h1>

  <p>Fanfic</p>

  <p>Translator: yuNS</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>As I ran my usual stall in the corner of the adventurers’ guild, I spotted a familiar face.</p>

  <p>“Yo, Vanir. Tell my fortune.”</p>

  <p>“Go away.”</p>

  <p>The man’s name was Kazuma Satou.</p>

  <p>As a devil who sees through all, the only person whose thoughts I couldn’t read was this man.</p>

  <p>“Hey, I’m a customer, you know? In business, the customer is king, right? So treat me like one.”</p>

  <p>“Since you asked Vanir to treat you like a god… that means you’d like a taste of my Vanir-style death ray, yes?”</p>

  <p>At that, the otherworlder cautiously retreated several steps.</p>

  <p>“You’re a good business partner, but the same can’t be said for your other qualities. Why must you come bother Vanir every time you have a problem? The only ones capable of making a devil like me feel this foul are that goddess… and you, brat.”</p>

  <p>“Hey, don’t lump the benevolent Kazuma in with that nuisance. Come on, I’m begging you—this is a fair deal, right? It’s not like I can’t pay. Why am I the only one who gets turned away?”</p>

  <p>“Because you always come to Vanir to discuss idiotic things. The last time you were here, you wanted advice on, ‘Even though I live with so many young girls, why has nobody ever slipped into my bed!? Why do I never get the chance to catch them changing!? Is this some kind of curse!?’”</p>

  <p>“I don’t really think those are stupid topics… But yeah, I guess this isn’t Japan—it’s another world. So even if you live together, the ‘common sense’ is different. Nothing to be done… Fine, we’ll drop that for now.”</p>

  <p>As the otherworlder rambled on, he leaned in and lowered his voice.</p>

  <p>“I want you to tell me how many cute girls in this town have feelings for me.”</p>

  <p>“Go away.”</p>

  <p>The otherworlder had come—once again—to discuss idiotic things. I waved him off.</p>

  <p>“Wait, what? Are you seriously just trying to make my life harder!? I said I’d pay you!”</p>

  <p>“You’re unbelievably annoying, brat. You would use Vanir’s powers for something so unfathomably pointless. There isn’t a single lady out there who’d like someone like you!”</p>

  <p>“Are you kidding me!? How can there not be a single girl out there who likes me!? I’m the hero who routed several Demon King Army generals—the savior of this town, the great adventurer Kazuma! It wouldn’t even be weird if people asked for my autograph!”</p>

  <p>“Vanir told you already! A girl like that doesn’t exist in this world! Now hurry up and leave—you’re obstructing my business!”</p>

  <p>Even after I told him the truth, he refused to accept my answer and sat down beside me.</p>

  <p>Then a young woman—completely unrelated to this mess—arrived at my table.</p>

  <p>“Um, I have something that’s been bothering me, and I wanted to ask for advice…”</p>

  <p>“Hmph. No matter what problem you have, I will do my best to solve it promptly. My fee depends on how complicated your problem is. Are my terms agreeable?”</p>

  <p>The customer sitting across from me nodded.</p>

  <p>“Actually… lately my chest has been aching a little… There’s nothing during the day, but at night it feels like something is pressing down on me…”</p>

  <p>“It’s probably love, right~~”</p>

  <p>“Stop messing around, brat! Go stand off to the side and stay there!”</p>

  <p>I dismissed the otherworlder—who had casually butted in—and used my power to see through everything about the customer.</p>

  <p>“…Hmph. Your mother-in-law, who passed away last month, has been coming to your home every night to trouble you. When you’re fast asleep, she jumps up and down on your chest…”</p>

  <p>“That woman won’t leave me alone even after she’s dead!? Please teach me how to repel evil spirits!”</p>

  <p>I handed a slip of paper to the enraged customer.</p>

  <p>“Go to the address written on that memo and look for ‘Wiz’s Magic Item Shop.’ They sell a type of holy water called ‘Goddess Juice.’ Sprinkle it around your home and the evil spirit will be purified and ascend peacefully.”</p>

  <p>“Got it! Here’s a little extra to thank you—please take it! This time I’ll settle things with that witch once and for all!”</p>

  <p>The woman slammed the money onto the table and hurried out of the adventurers’ guild. True to her word, it was more than my standard fee.</p>

  <p>The otherworlder, having watched the whole thing, opened his mouth.</p>

  <p>“Hey, you just solved her problem in like ten seconds. So why won’t you even try to solve mine? Is it because you only work hard when the customer’s a woman?”</p>

  <p>“So you’re still here, you annoying brat. If you actually have something proper to discuss, I will properly assist you. Go find a real problem and come back. If you can’t, then go away—I have other customers.”</p>

  <p>Yes, my consultation corner was about to hit rush hour.</p>

  <p>The otherworlder shuffled to the back of the line, behind several of my more respectable customers.</p>

  <p>“Hey, wait a second. I’ve got normal problems too. I was just joking earlier—sorry about that. Anyway, I won’t try to cheap out, so help me solve my problem, okay?”</p>

  <p>As he said that, the otherworlder put on an earnest expression.</p>

  <p>Since this brat was always involved in some kind of trouble, could it be that he encountered some problem again?</p>

  <p>I leaned forward and asked seriously:</p>

  <p>“…What trouble do you have?”</p>

  <p>“It doesn’t matter if they’re a girl or a guy—everyone around me is weird, no matter what. I’m kind of troubled by it.”</p>

  <p>“Go away.”</p>

  <p>As I rendered my final judgment, the otherworlder’s face went pale.</p>

  <p>“What—why!? That’s an earnest problem! You’re useless when the problem actually matters!”</p>

  <p>“Since you’re always asking me about useless things, perhaps I should cast a curse that makes mushrooms grow on your rear. Then you’ll have a real problem.”</p>

  <p>The otherworlder’s body trembled, and he swiftly backed away from me.</p>

  <p>Once he felt that he was safe with the distance between us, he turned back and shouted:</p>

  <p>“I-di-ot! I-di-ot! I said I’m surrounded by weird people, but the weirdest one is you! I’m gonna spread bad rumors about your consulting corner until it shuts down, so just y—! Yo, I’m just kidding, I’m just kidding! Don’t come any closer!”</p>

  <p>With all my might, I chased after the man who ran off after spouting such dastardly lines.</p>

  <p>That little brat might just be the strangest man in this town.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>