<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Today, I Win Again!</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Today, I Win Again!</h1>

  <p>Translator: Cannongerbil</p>

  <p>Editors: Striker</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 17</p>

  <p><i>[So this is the short story that has Konosuba fans in Japan all a flutter. I’m releasing this early because I know a lot of people have been dying to know what exactly it contains, and also as compensation for the fact that Volume 17 probably won’t be ready for another month or two. I hope this story can tide everyone over until then.</i></p>

  <p><i>Also, this short story technically takes place after Volume 17. It doesn’t spoil anything and can be enjoyed without knowledge of its events, but just keep that in mind if you are a stickler for this sort of stuff.</i></p>

  <p><i>Well, without further ado, I hope you enjoy this little snippet.]</i></p>

  <hr/>

  <p>…I called out to Kazuma, who was sprawled on the sofa and idly petting Chomusuke as she lounged on his lap.</p>

  <p>“Kazuma, if you’re free, could you go out with me for a bit?”</p>

  <p>He looked up, expression perfectly flat, and replied as if he’d been waiting for this exact moment.</p>

  <p>“If this is your daily routine, wait until after lunch. If you’re picking a duel with somebody and need a witness, take Aqua—she can heal things. If you want someone to tag along because a new item dropped, go drag Darkness.”</p>

  <p>“That’s not it! What kind of person do you think I am!?”</p>

  <p>Those accusations sounded… suspiciously familiar. But if I admit that, I lose.</p>

  <p>And the strongest Crimson Demon does not lose.</p>

  <p>“I’m asking you on a date—stop springing up like that! You scared Chomusuke!”</p>

  <p>As we wandered through Axel together, Kazuma tilted his head.</p>

  <p>“So… Megumin. You invited me on a date, right?”</p>

  <p>“I did. Doesn’t it feel like a date just walking around together like this?”</p>

  <p>He’d had a faint frown on his face for a while, and I had no idea what he was so unhappy about.</p>

  <p>“Yeah, but those people sneaking around behind us are your classmates, aren’t they? You only asked me out so you could show off in front of them, right?”</p>

  <p>Indeed, just as Kazuma said, three of my former classmates were tailing us.</p>

  <p>One of them was my rival, Yunyun.</p>

  <p>The other two were Funifura and… Dodonko. Probably.</p>

  <p>I had no idea why they were following us. Maybe they had too much free time and not enough self-respect.</p>

  <p>“Well, yes, I do want to assert my superiority over those sore losers who should be out finding boyfriends. But it’s also true that I genuinely wanted to go on a date with you, Kazuma.”</p>

  <p>When I told him that, Kazuma’s face reddened and he started acting strangely skittish.</p>

  <p>“O-oh. I see… Well, I’m fine with that…”</p>

  <p>Behind us, muffled shrieks and frantic whispering immediately erupted. I was certain those three were reaching the peak of their excitement.</p>

  <p>Kazuma opened his mouth like he’d just remembered something important.</p>

  <p>“You know, the dates I’m familiar with have a lot more flirting. Like walking around holding hands, or kissing whenever our eyes meet.”</p>

  <p>“Holding hands is one thing, but if we start kissing in the middle of the street, the other adventurers will never let us live it down. …And doing that kind of thing in front of my classmates is embarrassing…”</p>

  <p>As I said that, I casually looped my arm through his. Another wave of muffled screams came from behind us.</p>

  <p>I really wished they’d stop stalking us and go find literally any hobby.</p>

  <p>Kazuma heard them too, and he gave me an annoyingly confident grin.</p>

  <p>“Heh. Then today, let’s show your classmates what you look like after you’ve ‘ascended the stairway of adulthood.’ Leave it to me. I know a thing or two about this stuff.”</p>

  <p>“Kazuma, whenever you get cocky like that, you always mess up. Don’t do anything weird.”</p>

  <p>He was absolutely going to get cocky, so I had to make my warning unmistakably clear.</p>

  <p>Those three would probably go home in tears after seeing us flirt. And once they finally left—</p>

  <p>“Wait. You said ‘in front of my classmates.’ That means…”</p>

  <p>“Yes, it means exactly what you think it means! Come on—let’s get on with our date already!”</p>

  <p>He was as blunt and tactless as ever… and somehow, that was part of what I’d fallen for.</p>

  <p>Trying to hide my burning face, I looked down, grabbed his hand, and started to pull him along—</p>

  <p>“It’s only been a little while since I last saw you, but you’ve really changed…”</p>

  <p>—only for my path to be blocked by a blushing Funifura.</p>

  <p>“What are you doing, Funikura!? Was stalking me not enough, so now you’re getting in the way too!?”</p>

  <p>“I’m Funifura! Remember my name already! And I’m not stalking you just because. I came to deliver a letter, and I can’t stand watching you two be all lovey-dovey anymore…”</p>

  <p>Averting her red face, Funifura shoved a letter into my hands.</p>

  <p>“It’s from my parents and Komekko… S-sorry. I thought you were putting on a show to mess with me, so I… followed along.”</p>

  <p>“Y-Yunyun said you two are really a thing now, but I still don’t believe it! There’s no way you—who showed zero interest in romance back then—could beat me…”</p>

  <p>I wasn’t a child anymore—someone who cared about winning and losing over every little thing.</p>

  <p>Honestly, I didn’t really care what Funifura and the others thought at this point. I just wished they’d hurry up and leave…</p>

  <p>“Hey, enough about that. Let’s go somewhere private so we can make out,” Kazuma said.</p>

  <p>“Why would you say that right now!? Fine! I get it! Let’s go home!”</p>

  <p>To hide how flustered—and impatient—I suddenly felt, I snatched the letter from Funifura’s hands.</p>

  <p>It was fine. It wasn’t embarrassing at all.</p>

  <p>If anything, I wanted them to spread the news back at the village.</p>

  <p>This would end my rivalry with Yunyun and deal a decisive blow to Funifura, who had teased me for so long…!</p>

  <p>Funifura—the girl who’d constantly poked fun at me and Yunyun about romance back when we were classmates—finally seemed to accept defeat. Her face crumpled, and she burst into tears.</p>

  <p>“Uwaaaah! I didn’t want to believe it, but it’s just like Yunyun said—you two really are a thing now! You’re definitely already busy making babies!”</p>

  <p>“W-we haven’t gone that far! Wait! Don’t spread disgusting rumors about me!”</p>

  <p>Funifura took off running after dropping that utterly ridiculous line, and I sprinted after her—</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
