<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Consulting with this Masked Devil! - Today as a Love Consultant</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Consulting with this Masked Devil! - Today as a Love Consultant</h1>

  <p>Fanfic</p>

  <p>Translator: yuNS</p>

  <p>Occurrence: Fanfic (non-canon)</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>A little after lunch, once the guild’s lunchtime rush started to thin—</p>

  <p>“To think you’d come to Vanir for advice. How rare. How delightfully absurd, O Crimson Demon.”</p>

  <p>“Who are you calling absurd!? Even I have problems I want to talk to someone about, okay!?”</p>

  <p>A girl from that famously over-the-top tribe—the Crimson Demons—had come to consult me.</p>

  <p>Her crimson eyes glittering, she planted herself in the chair across from my counter and tried very hard to look serious.</p>

  <p>“I heard your fortune-telling is scarily accurate, so… I want your help with something.”</p>

  <p>“I don’t mind, so long as you pay. Now then—what do you wish to know? The best locations for casting Explosion magic, perhaps?”</p>

  <p>“Not that! I mean, I do want to know, but that’s not why I’m here today. I want to know the true identity of a certain someone.”</p>

  <p>A certain someone?</p>

  <p>“Every time I see him, he’s wearing a mask, and he has this… ‘shadowy hero’ vibe. He’s really cool, but—how do I put this…? Ever since the first time I saw him, I’ve had this nagging feeling he isn’t a stranger. It’s been bothering me. No matter what, I want to see his real face.”</p>

  <p>“So. You desire to see Vanir’s true face beneath this mask.”</p>

  <p>“No! Why would I want that!? I mean the true face of a certain thieving group!”</p>

  <p>A thieving group?</p>

  <p>“Ah. The wanted thief with taste, the one who wears a mask much like mine. The guild staff have asked me the same question before. But for reasons even I find irritating… I cannot get a clear read on that one.”</p>

  <p>“How disappointing. You act all smug and confident, but when it matters, you’re just plain useless.”</p>

  <p>“To be called useless by someone whose usefulness peaks once per day. Even I did not foresee such an insult.”</p>

  <p>“Hey! Don’t say it like the only thing I can do is Explosion! …But still, what a shame. If I could meet that masked thief again, I’d like to—uh—get that cool ma…sk…”</p>

  <p>Halfway through the word, she froze like she’d just cast a spell on herself.</p>

  <p>“That’s it! The mask! I’ve wanted one for ages! I can buy one at Wiz’s shop, right?”</p>

  <p>“It warms my heart to see such appreciation for my craftsmanship. However, ‘Vanir Masks’ sold out long ago. To preserve their exquisite exclusivity, I have chosen not to restock for the time being.”</p>

  <p>“What!? Don’t be stingy—just give me one! You were bragging two seconds ago! Come on!”</p>

  <p>“Y-You brat—unhand me! Are you attempting to kidnap a devil!? There will be a restock someday, so be patient and wait!”</p>

  <p>The Crimson Demon grabbed at my mask and tried to pry it off my face.</p>

  <p>I peeled her fingers away and shooed her back, and that was when she suddenly clapped her hands like she’d just had a revelation.</p>

  <p>“Wait, the mask! That thief was wearing one you made! If that’s the case, doesn’t that mean the thief is one of your customers?”</p>

  <p>“Hmph. Everyone who purchased a Vanir Mask was, in their own way, a little strange. But I do not recall any of them being a master thief of that caliber…”</p>

  <p>From what I’d heard, the masked thief had slipped through the royal palace’s tight security, dropped a number of knights in an instant, humbled a fairly famous adventurer, and then walked away with a treasure.</p>

  <p>It pained me to admit it, but I had no memory of handing one of my masks to someone that outstanding.</p>

  <p>“Most likely, the mask changed hands. Still… a name like ‘Masked Thief Brigade’ shows impeccable taste. I would very much enjoy a conversation with them someday.”</p>

  <p>“If that ever happens, call me too. All right, I’m going—I still have my routine work to do today.”</p>

  <p>She stood, and as she turned to leave, I let my voice drift after her.</p>

  <p>“Are you quite certain you have nothing else to ask? Surely there’s something you’re truly worried about.”</p>

  <p>She paused at the doorway, spun around, and pointed at me.</p>

  <p>“Right! You still haven’t told me the best places to cast Explosion magic!”</p>

  <p>She marched back and sat down again, but that was not what I meant.</p>

  <p>“Such trifles are of no consequence. More important—would you like me to divine the future of the man who has taken up residence in your heart?”</p>

  <p>“!”</p>

  <p>At my words, she visibly jolted.</p>

  <p>“His future is not yet decided. How fascinating… I would never have guessed. That man is far more popular than he appears at first glance.”</p>

  <p>“W-What are you talking about!? Even if you try to bait me like that, I won’t fall for it! …But, um, I guess it’s fine if I listen a little. Just a little, okay?”</p>

  <p>“Then you must pay to hear what comes next.”</p>

  <p>…Hearing that, the Crimson Demon opened her purse and stared down into it for an uncomfortably long time.</p>

  <p>Then, with all the drama of a grand transaction, she carefully produced its contents and placed them in my hand.</p>

  <p>“I’m afraid I cannot accept ‘almost-filled’ stamp cards and coupons as currency.”</p>

  <p>Her face flushed bright red. Then she snapped her chin up, as if she could intimidate reality itself into changing.</p>

  <p>“My name is Megumin! I am Axel’s number-one mage, and I forge my own destiny as I walk a thorny path! There’s no way I have a man in my heart—and there’s no way I’d consult you about stupid girly feelings!”</p>

  <p>With that declaration, she bolted out of the guild.</p>

  <p>The flustered feelings of a young girl—feelings that made even the most jaded onlooker smile—were, to a devil like me, truly exquisite negative emotions.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
