<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>To Realize a Man’s Romance!</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>To Realize a Man’s Romance!</h1>

  <p>Translator: Skythewood</p>

  <p>Editors: Adam, BlitzBlast, Cannongerbil, Xenthur</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 8</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>We were upstairs in the living area of Wiz’s magic item shop.</p>

  <p>“Um, Lady Aqua… It’s hard for me to work when you’re hugging me like that…”</p>

  <p>Aqua had wrapped herself around Wiz from behind while Wiz worked at a small table.</p>

  <p>“But you’re nice and cool and comfortable to hug! And it’s not like there are any customers anyway, so it doesn’t matter if you’re not downstairs, right? You should just stay in my room all summer.”</p>

  <p>“E-even if <i>you</i> say that…”</p>

  <p>It wasn’t quite “melt in place” hot, but the heat wave was still brutal.</p>

  <p>Aqua had no intention of letting go of Wiz’s chilled lich body until it passed.</p>

  <p>“Aren’t you going to purify her if you keep touching her? Quit getting in the way and let her work.”</p>

  <p>“Relax. I’m suppressing my divine aura. As long as I keep thinking about terrible things, the purification effect naturally weakens.”</p>

  <p>“What exactly are you thinking about in broad daylight, you shameless goddess?”</p>

  <p>“…Oh, you know. The usual things you’re always thinking about.”</p>

  <p>As Aqua and I traded insults, Wiz—who had been diligently working the whole time—lifted her head.</p>

  <p>“It’s finished!”</p>

  <p>She held up the item in her hands.</p>

  <p>“I’ve been wondering for a while—what have you even been making?”</p>

  <p>Wiz’s proud smile practically said, “I’m glad you asked.”</p>

  <p>“My newest magic item! It’s embarrassing to praise myself, but it’s flawless and incredibly convenient! It has limited uses, but it lets anyone cast healing magic with ease…”</p>

  <p>Aqua, still glued to Wiz’s back, abruptly cut her off and smashed the magic item with her fist.</p>

  <p>“Ah!? W-what are you doing!? I worked so hard on that!”</p>

  <p>Wiz wailed. Aqua, continuing her wordless protest, immediately resumed hugging her.</p>

  <p>Apparently, she didn’t like the idea of everyone being able to use healing magic.</p>

  <p>As Wiz stared mournfully at the wreckage in her hands, I said,</p>

  <p>“Sorry, Wiz. I’ll make her reimburse you, so—hey! Don’t suddenly pretend you’re asleep!”</p>

  <p>The moment she heard the word “pay,” Aqua shut her eyes and buried her face in Wiz’s back like she was trying to fuse with the furniture.</p>

  <p>“I-I guess I won’t take a total loss. I can probably still survive the month…”</p>

  <p>Wiz looked relieved. I looked down at the ruined item and asked,</p>

  <p>“But, Wiz, aren’t you supposed to be a famous wizard? Can’t you make something that actually sells? Normal mages can’t do what you do, right?”</p>

  <p>“That’s true. Magic items take a lot of mana to create. Something like that could probably only be made by Crimson Demon artisans.”</p>

  <p>So the rumors were true. Wiz really was incredible.</p>

  <p>And then, an idea struck me, and I asked as casually as I could manage:</p>

  <p>“Hypothetically, could you make a doll that runs on mana? Not one of those creepy Vanir puppets that exist purely to punch people. I mean a doll shaped like a cute girl.”</p>

  <p>“I suppose it’s possible. I could probably make one that looks like an ordinary person and can do simple housework.”</p>

  <p>…</p>

  <p>“Sell that!!”</p>

  <p>“Huh!? I mean, it’s <i>possible</i>—but it would be very, very expensive.”</p>

  <p>“That’s fine! It’ll sell! It’ll absolutely sell! At the very least, anyone with a weird name like mine would buy one on the spot!”</p>

  <p>I couldn’t suppress my excitement at the thought that Wiz could build a full-on android.</p>

  <p>“W-will it really…? Um, wouldn’t it be cheaper to make a golem, or just hire maids…?”</p>

  <p>Setting maids aside, every man dreamed of owning a cute robot girl. That was just common sense.</p>

  <p>“If it can talk, even better, but housework is plenty! It’ll sell—I’m telling you, it’ll rake in money!”</p>

  <p>“Well… I think it could probably say simple phrases…”</p>

  <p>“Perfect!”</p>

  <p>I shouted before I could stop myself.</p>

  <p>Startled, Wiz hurried to clarify:</p>

  <p>“N-no, I really mean <i>simple</i> phrases…! Like ‘Yes, Master,’ or ‘Welcome home, Master’…”</p>

  <p>“I’d buy it without hesitating. Please start working on this right away. Wiz, trust me—this will change the world.”</p>

  <p>“O-okay! I’ll do my best. Now I’m kind of excited, too!”</p>

  <p>“That’s the spirit! And I’ll help however I can!”</p>

  <p>Wiz looked at me with teary-eyed warmth—and then, with perfect timing, said something with deep significance.</p>

  <p>“Then there’s something I’d like Kazuma to help with right now…”</p>

  <p>…By the way, was Wiz’s back glowing?</p>

  <p>“Lately, my back has felt very hot. If this keeps up, I’m going to be incinerated, so… Please find a way to make Aqua—ow! Lady Aqua, that’s hot! Please get off me quickly! Lady Aqua!”</p>

  <p>“Hey, Aqua, get up! You idiot, why are you glowing!? Wiz is about to do something incredible, so wake up already!!”</p>

  <p>By the way, the beautiful personal android girl I’d been dreaming of ended up being a useless hunk of junk that ran out of power after half a day and took about as much mana as an Explosion spell to recharge.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
