<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>When That Goddess Returns…</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>When That Goddess Returns…</h1>

  <p>Translator: Cannongerbil</p>

  <p>Editors: Striker, Ulti</p>

  <p>Localization: Sean92us (Utilizing GPT-5.2)</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 16</p>

  <p>[TL Note: Fun fact: Both Toranora and Gamers came with the exact same short story this time.]</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>“AAAAAAAAAAAH! AAAAAAAAAAAH! AAAAAAAAAAAH! I’ve had it with that idiot goddess! When she gets back, I’m going to chew her out!”</p>

  <p>“W-What’s wrong, Kazuma!? Don’t yell out of nowhere—you scared me…”</p>

  <p>On that day.</p>

  <p>After reading the note that idiot goddess left behind, I tore through her room hoping it’d tell me where she’d run off to, but…</p>

  <p>“A lot is wrong right now, but first—look at this!”</p>

  <p>“…Isn’t that the mug you were throwing a fit over a while back because you thought you lost it?”</p>

  <p>I shoved the broken cup towards Darkness.</p>

  <p>The moment she realized I was in Aqua’s room, she understood.</p>

  <p>“W-Well, that kind of thing is just… normal for her. I can introduce you to a dinnerware shop nobles frequent, so you can buy a replacement.”</p>

  <p>Darkness tried to calm me down, but…</p>

  <p>“That’s not the point. Even I wouldn’t blow my top over one broken mug. If she’d just admitted it, the worst I’d do is make her my servant for a week.”</p>

  <p>“I think that’s exactly why she hid it from you.”</p>

  <p>With an exasperated sigh, her gaze shifted to the broken game console I had in my other hand.</p>

  <p>“…That’s the rare relic you picked up in the Crimson Demon village, right? …B-But, um, Aqua probably didn’t do it on purpose…”</p>

  <p>In response to Darkness trying to cover for her, I pulled out a box I’d found in Aqua’s room.</p>

  <p>“That’s the weird jacket you treasure, and this is an empty bottle? Ah, she drank the expensive wine you bought. And then there’s… Sorry, there’s just too much to keep track of.”</p>

  <p>Inside the box is a practical mountain of evidence that Aqua tried to hide from me.</p>

  <p>Even I wouldn’t have gotten angry over one or two items.</p>

  <p>But…</p>

  <p>For some reason, Darkness suddenly let out a small laugh.</p>

  <p>“…What? What’s so funny? This jersey is really important to me, you know? The fact it ended up in here after I put it in the laundry means she wasn’t paying attention while scrubbing and tore it… Yeah. I knew it!”</p>

  <p>“Ah, no, I mean… No matter what you say, you’re still talking like Aqua’s coming back, so…”</p>

  <p>Darkness let out a wry smile, and I felt a blush creeping up my cheeks.</p>

  <p>“…Fine. I’ll clean up her mess for her. In exchange, she’s our servant for a month.”</p>

  <p>Hearing my tsundere-esque line, Darkness stifled a laugh.</p>

  <p>…Just then.</p>

  <p>“Why are you making such a racket in Aqua’s room? Did you find a lead?”</p>

  <p>Megumin poked her head inside the room.</p>

  <p>“No, I didn’t find any leads—but I did find one more reason to drag her back to this town.”</p>

  <p>After explaining what I found to Megumin,</p>

  <p>“…I see. Then we have to bring her back as soon as possible so we can properly lecture her.”</p>

  <p>Megumin said with a laugh.</p>

  <p>“Indeed. I’m looking forward to seeing how she plans to apologize.”</p>

  <p>Darkness joined in with a laugh of her own.</p>

  <p>She was probably wandering some back road somewhere right now. And when I pictured her tearful face…</p>

  <p>“…Say, did you two look inside the box? There’s no way she only broke my stuff, right?”</p>

  <p>At my words, the two of them froze in their tracks.</p>

  <p>“Excuse me… Wait, isn’t this the Rookie Killer figurine I painstakingly saved up to buy!? I thought Chomusuke dragged it off somewhere! So it was in here the whole time!?”</p>

  <p>“Aaah, this is the tea set I got from Lumes! And I told her a million times to be careful with it…”</p>

  <p>The two of them barely spent any time searching before discovering important stuff of their own that have been broken.</p>

  <p>“We have to bring her back as soon as possible so we can properly lecture her.”</p>

  <p>“Indeed. I’m looking forward to seeing how she plans to apologize.”</p>

  <p>They said those very same words just moments ago, but somehow the meaning seems to have changed quite a bit.</p>

  <p>“…Well, if she cries and apologizes, I guess I’ll forgive her…”</p>

  <p>I muttered as I envisioned the future for that runaway goddess.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
