<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>A Real magic item!</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>A Real magic item!</h1>

  <p>Translator: Cannongerbil</p>

  <p>Editors: Xenthur</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 13</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>On a certain afternoon.</p>

  <p>I was free and stopped by the adventurer’s guild in search of something to do, and for some reason, a crowd has gathered there.</p>

  <p>“…? Hey, what’s all this fuss about?”</p>

  <p>“Oh, isn’t that Kazuma? It’s magic items. A magic item peddler has arrived.”</p>

  <p>A familiar adventurer told me, and I reacted instantly upon hearing the term “Magic item.”</p>

  <p>“There’s got to be some kind of downside, right? Like it’ll explode upon use or it’ll affect all targets indiscriminately or something.”</p>

  <p>“These aren’t the items that Wiz-san sells, so you don’t have to worry about that. You’re loaded, so why don’t you take a look? Your companions are already out there picking stuff out.”</p>

  <p>Turning over at his words, I saw my companions were indeed over there, picking up items as they wished.</p>

  <p>“Oh, Kazuma, you came to the right place. Look at this item! It’s a potion that can increase my magic power for a short time! There are no downsides! I would like to borrow some money!”</p>

  <p>“Kazuma-san, Kazuma-san, this is a cleaning tool that will spin around once supplied with mana. I would really like you to buy it. It’d be much easier to clean the toilets with this. Oh, and it seems like there are no downsides.”</p>

  <p>I don’t know why they are emphasizing the fact that it has no downsides, but it seems like these things are at least usable.</p>

  <p>That said, increasing Megumin’s magic power any further would only cause more problems, and Aqua will probably break it soon enough if I buy it for her.</p>

  <p>And, standing next to them, Darkness was looking at something in her hand with a troubled expression.</p>

  <p>“A bandana that can increase dexterity, huh… Should I buy it? No, wait, in that case, my attacks will hit. But, on the other hand, we’ve been going up against a lot of strong enemies recently…”</p>

  <p>“Right, buy it. Buy it right now. Actually, I’ll pay for it, so put it on right now.”</p>

  <p>After finding an item that’s perfect for Darkness, I immediately made to purchase it.</p>

  <p>“Wha-Kazuma! No, wait, this has, you know, downsides…”</p>

  <p>“It doesn’t have any! Just give it to me, I’ll pay for it!”</p>

  <p>“Ah!”</p>

  <p>After taking the bandanna off Darkness’s hands, I looked over the goods on display to see if there’s anything else worth buying.</p>

  <p>They said it was a peddler, so I was expecting some useless garbage, but I managed to get my hands on a very convenient item.</p>

  <p>It’d be perfect if there’s a staff that allows you to use other kinds of spells, or an item that increases intelligence.</p>

  <p>“That’s unfair, Kazuma! Please buy my item too! Or at least lend me some money!”</p>

  <p>“I don’t want to return this, so please buy it for me! This magic item will definitely be fun! If I put some water on it and make it spin, it’ll definitely spray water everywhere. If I use it well, it can be used as part of a party trick to create rainbows!”</p>

  <p>“Shut up! You don’t need that stuff! Even if I bought that potion for you, Megumin, you’ll just drink it immediately without waiting for a boss to appear! And that thing isn’t a toy, Aqua!”</p>

  <p>Pushing aside the two of them who were clinging onto me, my eyes fell upon something interesting.</p>

  <p>“What’s this? Paralyze stone?”</p>

  <p>“Oh, you have a good eye, dear customer. That’s an exceptional item that has a certain chance of paralyzing a target it hits. That said, there is a downside…”</p>

  <p>The old man peddler explained as I looked over the stone in my hand.</p>

  <p>“In addition to the chance of paralysation being low, it’s quite rare, so there’s only one for sale. On top of that, it’s pretty expensive, and it’s not a suitable item to trust your life to in the heat of battle… After all, if the paralysation fails to work, the enemy can pick it up, and it’d now be a threat to you. It’s an item that anyone can use, so now you’d be the one at risk of being paralyzed.”</p>

  <p>… Indeed, there’s no point in handing your opponent a convenient item.</p>

  <p>If there’s no guarantee that the effect will go off, it’d be like handing over a weapon to your opponent…</p>

  <p>Just then, I realized something.</p>

  <p>“Old man, I’ll buy this stone.”</p>

  <p>“Huh? Are you sure, dear customer? I mean, as a storeowner, it’d be a great help if you’d take it off my hands, but…”</p>

  <p>After handing over the money to the old man, I turned towards Megumin with the stone in hand.</p>

  <p>“Hey, Megumin, you want to try taking on my new technique?”</p>

  <p>“Oh? Well, as long as it wouldn’t harm me, I don’t mind.”</p>

  <p>As expected of the Crimson Demons. They understand the appeal of a new technique.</p>

  <p>I threw the paralyze stone towards Megumin as she nodded.</p>

  <p>The moment the stone made contact, I used a skill I had prepared in advance.</p>

  <p>“Steal!”</p>

  <p>“Ouch!”</p>

  <p>As I intended, in my hand was…</p>

  <p>“Hey.”</p>

  <p>“That’s not it, hear me out.”</p>

  <p>With Megumin’s underwear in my hand, I immediately started with a denial.</p>

  <p>“My new technique is meant to allow me to retrieve the paralyze stone after it hits an opponent. It’s a technique that allows me to throw an infinite number of paralyze stones. My Steal has a weird trait of targeting more expensive items. In other words, it’s your fault for wearing expensive panties!”</p>

  <p>“I don’t wear expensive panties! Actually, I can’t move!”</p>

  <p>Just then, I noticed something odd with the surrounding atmosphere.</p>

  <p>“Y-You came up with an amazing technique of paralyzing someone and stealing their panties…”</p>

  <p>“You devil… No, comparing you to them is an insult to devils…”</p>

  <p>Oh, crap, I think I just raised another Scumzuma flag.</p>

  <p>“Say, Kazuma… How much do I have to pay to experience that new technique of yours?”</p>

  <p>Darkness looked at the paralyze stone in my hand with an envious expression.</p>

  <p>“I won’t use it on you no matter how much you pay! Old man, I want a refund! Hey, Aqua, don’t pretend like you don’t know me, help me persuade him for a refund!”</p>

  <p>Today, my reputation once again took another great hit.</p>

  <p>-Afterwards, I gave Darkness the bandanna that increases your dexterity, but of course, she still couldn’t hit anything.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
