<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Dust Spinoff 3 Short Story: A Serious day</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Dust Spinoff 3 Short Story: A Serious day</h1>

  <p>Translator: Cannongerbil</p>

  <p>Editors: Ulti, Xenthur</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Dust Spinoff Volume 3</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>“I think I’ll go on an adventure.”</p>

  <p>I declared as we were having a meal at the guild.</p>

  <p>My companions froze for a moment, but resumed eating their meals after giving me the barest hint of a glance.</p>

  <p>I’m not one to be so easily discouraged. I stared at the ceiling, grabbed the hilt of my sword, and launched into a fervent speech.</p>

  <p>“I don’t have any money. Normally I would laze around and think of ways to easily earn money. But I recently had a revelation. If I want money, all I have to do is to work hard for it.”</p>

  <p>I personally thought that was pretty good.</p>

  <p>I’m a little concerned over the silent reactions of my companions, so I lowered my gaze… To find all three of them silently eating their meals.</p>

  <p>“… Hey, aren’t you going to say something? ’Well said,‘ or ’I’m actually moved,’ or any words to that effect? It’s fine to praise me, you know?”</p>

  <p>Towards my question, Lynn said in an exasperated manner,</p>

  <p>“Aren’t you just stating the obvious?”</p>

  <p>“I’m just guessing here, but you’re not going to say you saw a woman caring for a cat caught out in the rain and fell for her, and decided to raise your standing so you can woo her or something as cliché as that, are you?”</p>

  <p>“Well, just work seriously from now on.”</p>

  <p>These guys… They saw through my perfect strategy!</p>

  <p>I tried to put into action one of the tips for raising affection that I came across in one of the books I read at the general store, but it didn’t have any effect at all.</p>

  <p>Dammit, it’s because you stock such useless books that your store isn’t crowded. That old man really should treat his work more seriously.</p>

  <p>“Right, then, let’s go on an adventure.”</p>

  <p>“Why are you deciding things by yourself? Before we talk about adventure, do we even have a quest?”</p>

  <p>“Oh, I found a quest that really caught my eye earlier and brought it with me.”</p>

  <p>Saying that, I energetically slammed the request against the table.</p>

  <p>After confirming the contents of that quest, my companions turned to look at me with doubtful eyes.</p>

  <p>“What’s with this quest?”</p>

  <p>“It’s just as it looks. Capture a giant frog alive. It shouldn’t be a terribly difficult task with our party.”</p>

  <p>“Well, it’s certainly possible, but, say, Dust, what exactly is anyone going to do with a live giant frog?”</p>

  <p>Keith exasperatedly and repeatedly slapped the request.</p>

  <p>Taylor didn’t say anything, but he nodded along. It seems like he shares their opinion.</p>

  <p>“Well, that piqued my interest too, so I tried to get in touch with the person who put that quest up. As it turns out, the original requestor was a certain noble lady.”</p>

  <p>“A noble lady? What exactly is someone like that going to want a live giant frog for?”</p>

  <p>“Maybe she’s interested in the food that commoners eat and wants to try some? But there’s no reason to request a live capture in that case.”</p>

  <p>“Hmm… Perhaps she is particular about the freshness of ingredients?”</p>

  <p>My companions discussed amongst themselves.</p>

  <p>I was similarly confused when I first got the information, but everything clicked together the moment the guild gave me the name of the requestor.</p>

  <p>“Yeah, you’d think so, right? But, what if I were to say that the certain noble lady was Lalatina?”</p>

  <p>“Ah…”</p>

  <p>“Why would Darkness…” x2</p>

  <p>Lynn instantly caught onto it, whereas Taylor and Keith still seemed a little confused.</p>

  <p>Come to think of it, Lynn experienced Darkness’s… peculiarities first hand, but Taylor and Keith have yet to see her in action.</p>

  <p>“Well, there are a lot of uses for one.”</p>

  <p>I wouldn’t mind enlightening them, but Taylor does look up to Darkness as a fellow crusader. There’s no particular pressing reason to shatter his illusion of her.</p>

  <p>There are quite a few adventurers who remain ignorant of her true nature. They’ll probably fall into despair if they learn of it.</p>

  <p>“Darkness probably won’t stiff us on the pay, but before we actually go out and grab one… wouldn’t it be better if we talk with Kazuma first?”</p>

  <p>“There’s no problem as long as we get the money, right? Why do we need to confirm everything with my friend?”</p>

  <p>“Hearing that she wants a live monster brought before her gives me nothing but bad feelings.”</p>

  <p>Actually, yeah. I didn’t think too much about it because she’s a pervert, but… What exactly is she going to do after getting her hands on a live giant frog?</p>

  <p>The last time I saw her fight, she threw away her armour and charged into that horde of goblins…</p>

  <p>“… Yeah, maybe it’s better to run this through with Kazuma.”</p>

  <p>“Right? It’s not like we would lose anything if it turns out to be nothing. Kazuma is the leader of that party, after all.”</p>

  <p>“Alright. We’ll head over to Kazuma’s house after lunch.”</p>

  <p>When we eventually met up with Kazuma, it seems like it’s the first time he’s heard about this request, so he called Darkness out to give her a lecture.</p>

  <p>“It’s not because I’m jealous because you guys are the only ones who get eaten! I just want to get all slimy with that saliva…”</p>

  <p>She tried to keep a straight face while spinning all kinds of incomprehensible excuses for Kazuma, but receiving Kazuma’s scoldings just seems to make her more excited.</p>

  <p>This girl is absolutely beyond help.</p>

  <p>The quest was retracted, but we did receive a cancellation fee. I guess it’s not too bad to live seriously every once in a while.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
