<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>For Iris-sama’s sake</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>For Iris-sama’s sake</h1>

  <p>From Toranoana’s First-Print Limited Edition</p>

  <p>Translator: yuNS</p>

  <p>Editors: Keel the Swift, Deus-ex-Machina</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 11</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>Just how did this come to be?</p>

  <p>“Then let’s begin, Dustiness-dono. Even if you are my opponent… No, it is because you are my opponent that I will not hold back!”</p>

  <p>“Agreed, Shinfornea-dono. Shinfornea of the sword. Dustiness of the shield. Together we are the two noble families that have protected this kingdom through the years. Let us decide which of us is superior here and now!”</p>

  <p>We were currently at the capital’s training grounds.</p>

  <p>Iris bodyguards and educators, Claire and Darkness, were currently facing one another with swords in hand.</p>

  <p>The person in question, Iris, merely looked on in excitement.</p>

  <p>There’s a reason for this, of course.</p>

  <p>It all began back when we were all enjoying our afternoon tea.</p>

  <p>After hearing about Iris’ heroics, I had praised her with all my heart, but-</p>

  <p> </p>

  <p>“-Iris was so incredible back then. No really, it was amazing! I think my little sister is the strongest in the world!”</p>

  <p>“Onii-sama, you seem to only talk like that when it’s about me, but you shouldn’t forget that this nation is filled with talented people. In particular, Claire and Lalatina are my prided retainers.”</p>

  <p>Claire and Darkness became bashful upon hearing Iris’ praise.</p>

  <p>I’ve heard about Claire’s skill, but I’m more than familiar with the other’s worthless tendencies.</p>

  <p>Perhaps noticing my doubtful gaze, Darkness, whose gaze floated freely, initiated an unexpected conversation in an effort to shut me up.</p>

  <p>“Even if you say that, I fear that I cannot win against Kazuma.”</p>

  <p>Her hurried flattery was, in a sense, much like hush money.</p>

  <p>“Now that you mention it, Kazuma-dono is certainly someone who would give me a hard time as well. That said, I would hesitate to call the way he fights as ’combat’.”</p>

  <p>Claire, who had once had her underwear stripped by me, agreed with a strained laugh.</p>

  <p>“Onii-sama, you had a match with Lalatina as well?”</p>

  <p>“Mhm, I did. Well, I’m the guy who defeated the hero of the demon sword, so It’s a given that they would lose to me, right? There’s nothing for them to be embarrassed about.”</p>

  <p>That may have been a bit cocky of me, but Darkness and Claire remained silent.</p>

  <p>“You really are full of mysteries, onii-sama. Your level is not particularly high and your stats are all so low, but for some reason you still manage to win in the end. I don’t know anyone quite as miraculous as you.”</p>

  <p>“That’s right. That’s exactly right. Listen Iris, there are a lot of things in this world which cannot be measured by numbers alone. What’s truly important is this.” I said, as I thumped a fist against my chest.</p>

  <p>“Pectorals!?”</p>

  <p>“The heart.”</p>

  <p>I immediately retorted Iris, who was a natural airhead every once in a while.</p>

  <p>“Oh. By the way Onii-sama, who was trickier for you to handle, Lalatina or Claire?” Iris asked with keen interest.</p>

  <p>For her to be curious about this sort of thing, she really was a militant princess.</p>

  <p>“Hmm, if I had to choose, It’d probably be Darkness. All in all, she’s really tough and has a lot of stamina. Metaphorically speaking, she’s pretty much a barbarian.”</p>

  <p>“Might I suggest a change of wording perhaps? Or would you prefer to experience my ’toughness’ firsthand?”</p>

  <p>I ignored Darkness, who aggressively clenched her fists.</p>

  <p>“As for Claire, she admitted defeat after I stripped her of her panties so I really can’t say much about her. Either way, haven’t the two of you already fought before?”</p>

  <p>Darkness and Claire turned to glance at one another.</p>

  <p>Seeing this, Iris explained.</p>

  <p>“Lalatina lives in Axel, so there hasn’t been a chance for that… But that said, a little part of me does want to see how the two would fight one another.”</p>

  <p>Upon hearing Iris’ wish, her two loyal retainers stood up from their seats-</p>

  <p> </p>

  <p>“-KIEEEEEEHHH-!”</p>

  <p>Claire screamed like a bird in heat or something and struck Darkness’ armour.</p>

  <p>Judging from the scratch on her armour, Darkness seemed to gain a good idea of Claire’s offensive power. Darkness abandoned all defense and swung her greatsword with all her might in a wide arc.</p>

  <p>Perhaps out of coincidence, the sword grazed the tip of Claire’s nose, and her face turned pale.</p>

  <p>“Dustiness-dono, do you understand that this is not a deathmatch but a spar!?”</p>

  <p>“And what about it? There’s no need to worry. After all, we have Aqua who can use ’Resurrection’ in case something happens, so don’t hold back! Come at me like you wanted to kill me! Now, let us continue with all due haste! I look forward to a much sharper strike than that! Show me the true strength of the Household of Swords!”</p>

  <p>“What has come over you Dustiness-dono!? What has become of your ever-present reason!?”</p>

  <p>The two continued to battle feverishly even amidst their exchange of words.</p>

  <p>“Onii-sama, in your eyes, who do you think is better?”</p>

  <p>“You’re asking for my personal opinion? Given my familiarity with her, I would probably favour Darkness. On second inspection though, Claire isn’t looking too bad, but in certain ways, she doesn’t quite measure up to Darkness.”</p>

  <p>Maybe she overheard our conversation, I saw a happy smile trickle onto Darkness’ face.</p>

  <p>“Sorry about this, Shinfornea-dono, but it seems like he has quite a bit of faith in me, so as regrettable as it is, it’s time for me to stop playing around. Let’s finish this.”</p>

  <p>Ignoring Claire’s puzzlement, Darkness threw her sword aside, postured to take the fight seriously…</p>

  <p>“You certainly seem to have a high opinion of Lalatina, Onii-sama. Is the difference between the two really that great?” Iris asked as I observed the climax of the desperate battle between the two.</p>

  <p>“First off, Claire is way too slender, if you know what I mean. By my personal taste, I much prefer Darkness’ figure. Second, long hair scores high points in my book. No… short hair isn’t exactly bad either, you know? But in truth, Darkness has a better body and bigger chest, so it would only be fair for her to win out in the end.”</p>

  <p>“Onii-sama, what are you talking about!? I was talking about who you thought stronger, not who is more to your taste!”</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
