<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Make a show of gratitude every now and then!</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Make a show of gratitude every now and then!</h1>

  <p>Amazon special bonus story</p>

  <p>Translator: Skythewood</p>

  <p>Editors: Adam, Cannongerbil, Xenthur</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 7</p>

  <hr/>

  <p><i>“Oh! It might be summer, but this attire is still too sexy. Are you trying to seduce me?”</i></p>

  <p>The first thing I said after returning to the mansion made Darkness who was walking around in a skimpy attire freeze.</p>

  <p>“Hey, hey, what are you saying? Saying such things the moment you come back… The weather’s too hot so it can’t be helped, I’m not trying to seduce you…!”</p>

  <p><i>“You might be saying that, but you’re actually looking forward to it a little, right?”</i></p>

  <p>“What? What’s wrong with you today?”</p>

  <p>After hearing our exchange, the jaw of Megumin who was playing a board game with Aqua dropped.</p>

  <p>“What’s happening all of a sudden? Kazuma might frequently sexually harass others, but he’s way too straightforward.”</p>

  <p>I took a glance at Megumin.</p>

  <p><i>“Megumin’s wearing a one piece today, huh? Megumin who has a boyish personality should go all out and just go naked.”</i></p>

  <p>“What’s wrong with this guy? Why are you suddenly spouting such nonsense?”</p>

  <p>Megumin said in a panic while Aqua sat before her with her arm crossed and nodded.</p>

  <p>No, actually…</p>

  <p>“- A magic item that reveals your thoughts?” x2</p>

  <p><i>That’s right. Wiz asked me to test out this new magic item. When Wiz in her skimpy summer dress asked me with upturned eyes, I happily accepted it.</i></p>

  <p>That’s how it was.</p>

  <p>On my head right now was a hat handed to me by Wiz.</p>

  <p>“E-Erm, I wasn’t asking why you accepted… No, that was just your thoughts leaking out. But why’d Wiz make such a magic item…?”</p>

  <p><i>“It was developed with the idea of realizing conversations with monsters and animals. By the way, Wiz wanted to test it out on animals. I think she mentioned taking it to a beef farmer she knew for testing.”</i></p>

  <p>“Why didn’t you stop Wiz? Wouldn’t that make it hard for the cow farmer to work?”</p>

  <p>I looked at Aqua who was still motionless, focusing on the board game before her.</p>

  <p>I took off the hat and placed it on her head.</p>

  <p><i>“What should I do? If I move the piece here, Megumin with her twisted personality will definitely target it. What should I do? Betting a side dish on one match was a bad idea. If this goes on, I can only eat condiments with rice tonight. I should’ve used rock-paper-scissors to decide the match. I would just need to cast blessing magic to settle it.”</i></p>

  <p>When the voice of Aqua came out from the top of her head, Megumin pounced on her straight away.</p>

  <p>“Hey, what are you doing Megumin? The board’s a mess now! The match’s void now, right? There isn’t enough time for another match, so let’s settle this with rock-paper-scissors!!”</p>

  <p><i>“That surprised me, but this is a good chance! Did the weather get to her? It’s great that Megumin’s as impatient as Darkness!”</i></p>

  <p>“So that’s how you think of me? I’m an Archwizard known for being cool and collected, nothing like Darkness at all!!”</p>

  <p>“Wait, I don’t think I’m that impatient…! And what do the both of you usually think about me?”</p>

  <p>I gently removed the hat from Aqua and put it on.</p>

  <p><i>“That’s how this magic item works… Oh, the big-tits girl’s still looking at me suspiciously. You wear it for a change then.”</i></p>

  <p>“B-Big-tits girl? Is that how you call me in your mind? S-Stop! I don’t want to wear this thing, wear it yourself if you want!”</p>

  <p><i>“Tch, I was planning to ask how many times you masturbate a day after you put it on.”</i></p>

  <p>“A-An aristocratic lady won’t do something as shameless as masturbation! Ah, stop! Really, I’m not lying! I’m not lying, so don’t force the hat on me!!”</p>

  <p>After seeing Darkness’s reaction, Megumin sighed.</p>

  <p>“Really… I think it’d be better if this magic item isn’t developed. Kazuma, take it off. Just tell Wiz what I said.”</p>

  <p><i>“It can’t be helped. Forget it then. I was showered in cold glares by women on my way home too. I won’t dare go near that place for the time being.”</i></p>

  <p>“What were you thinking on your entire way here? Were there any police patrolling the area?”</p>

  <p>I took off the hat, lazily stretched my back and walked to the kitchen.</p>

  <p>“By the way Aqua, the rock-paper-scissors just now’s void. To think that you’ll actually secretly cast blessing… Don’t be too rampant with your cheating. Let’s have another proper match!”</p>

  <p>“H-How do you know? No, you’re just pulling a fast one. Where’s the evidence? Right, show the evidence that I actually secretly used magic!”</p>

  <p>“Give it up, Aqua. Your dinner tonight will be rice with condiments.”</p>

  <p>“Why-?”</p>

  <p>While listening to the commotion in the living room, I placed the hat on top of the wine bottle on the table as I prepared to make dinner…</p>

  <p><i>“Thank you for tending to my tomb and telling me stories of adventures all this while.”</i></p>

  <p>I turned and looked at the hat in surprise because of the sudden voice.</p>

  <p>“What was that? … My imagination? No, I heard it pretty clearly…”</p>

  <p>At this moment, Aqua’s cries came from the living room.</p>

  <p>“Kazuma-san, Kazuma-san-! The two of them are so mean! Hey, please make more dinner tonight!”</p>

  <p>… They were really troublesome.</p>

  <p>I made an extra dish-</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
