<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Regarding the dangers of that skill.</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Regarding the dangers of that skill.</h1>

  <p>From the Digital Special Edition</p>

  <p>Translator: yuNS</p>

  <p>Editors: Keel the Swift, Deus-ex-Machina</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 11</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>“Kazuma-san, Kazuma-san. What about that fat guy over there? Try reading what he’s saying.”</p>

  <p>After escorting Iris back, we stayed at the castle for several days.</p>

  <p>These few days were filled with consecutive parties dedicated to Iris’ dragon slaying feat and hospitality for us.</p>

  <p>“You mean that noble old man over there? Alright, leave it to me.”</p>

  <p>During these parties, Aqua and I didn’t have anything particular to do besides eat and drink, so we took to observing others.</p>

  <p>It was then that I paid more attention to a certain skill of mine.</p>

  <p>That being said, I could use my recently-learned lip-reading skill somehow to entertain myself.</p>

  <p>“What’s this…? ’We are out of mushroom sauce for my favourite lizard-dragon dish…? If there was that, the meal would have been perfect…‘”</p>

  <p>The old man gave the feeling that he was dreaming about the food.</p>

  <p>“I see, I see. Hey, isn’t that skill really fun to use? I would learn it if I still could.”</p>

  <p>“You’re not wrong, but let me tell you this. When people are giggling in your direction, you have to be extra extra careful. Even if the person you’re using the skill on doesn’t want you to hear their shit-talking, you’ll be able to read it all in an instant. Some time ago, I used the skill on some female adventurers that were smiling towards me, thinking they were interested in me, and ended up taking some unexpected damage. That said though, I ended up confronting them about that. Heck, I persisted until they gave in and apologized. I even made them continue until I was satisfied.”</p>

  <p>By the way, I also made them tell me ten good things about myself before I let them off.</p>

  <p>“You’re as shady as ever aren’t you? Well, what about those people over there? Do you see those oji-sans that are about as shady as you? I don’t know what they’re doing, but given how they’re gathered near the wall and murmuring about stuff, I think they’re up to no good. Call it a goddess’ instinct if you like, but I think they’re making some kind of evil plot!”</p>

  <p>Aqua pointed towards a group of two nobles, whom appeared to be rather unwelcoming, discussing something off to one side of the room.</p>

  <p>“Hmm… interesting. Alright, I’ll give it a try!”</p>

  <p>“Hey, I’m pretty sure they’re up to ’that’ sort of thing! You know, like stealing the castle maid’s underwear!”</p>

  <p>Listening to what Aqua said, I started reading the conversation.</p>

  <p>“’So, are the rumours true? That Elroad’s prime minister was a pawn of the demon king army?’ ’Mhm, there’s no doubting it. Events will take a turn for worse if our secret dealings with the prime minister are discovered. If we don’t hurry and destroy the evidence…‘”</p>

  <p>Having read the exchange, I quickly surveyed my surroundings.</p>

  <p>It doesn’t seem like anyone else saw or heard any of that. I should be in the clear.</p>

  <p>“What are we going to do, I thought they were just playing a prank, but it seems that we’ve gotten ourselves into something bigger again.”</p>

  <p>“Hey, I didn’t see or hear anything, but shouldn’t we report whatever it is to Iris, Darkness, or some other big-wig? Once we’re done with that we can clean our hands of it.”</p>

  <p>I nodded in agreement and accepted Aqua’s suggestion without another word. Recently, her ability to detect danger has flourished.</p>

  <p>That said, I might be better off sealing this skill for good.</p>

  <p>At this rate, I might accidentally come across some national secret and get ’erased’ as a result.</p>

  <p>Having quickly realized the dangers of this skill, I pledged in my heart to never use this skill again-</p>

  <p>“Hey, look look, over there. Someone is hitting on Darkness over there.”</p>

  <p>“What?”</p>

  <p>Aqua pointed towards the V.I.P. seats, where a well-dressed Darkness was being passionately hit-on by a noble youth.</p>

  <p>Irritated for no particular reason, I activated the lip-reading skill which I had sworn not to use again mere moments ago.</p>

  <p>“Kazuma, knowing you, you’ll read what they’re saying, right? Tell me about it, ok?”</p>

  <p>Aqua, who was brimming with curiosity grabbed onto my shoulders and shook me around.</p>

  <p>“Alright, listen in. Here’s what that guy is saying. ’It sure has been a while, Lalatina-sama. Ooh what is this! Since we last met, you have become magnificently beautiful! Your looks lead me astray! You are… yes, you are as beguiling as a death ambrosia blossoming deep in the mountains…’ Sorry, I can’t do this anymore, it’s too embarrassing. That said, I don’t know what a death ambrosia is, but is that really a compliment?”</p>

  <p>“That guy said that in a serious manner? Hey, then what about Darkness? What did she say?”</p>

  <p>“’What are you saying, Count Befrantz? I heard that you had taken personally to the battlefield the other day and that you have worked up your courage for the moment. You are… yes, you are as courageous greater king goblin….‘”</p>

  <p>“Kazuma-san Kazuma-san. This is a personal request from me, but hearing you talking like a girl creeps me out, so you can stop now, alright?”</p>

  <p>This is embarrassing for me, so could you not shut me down so calmly?</p>

  <p>“Anyway, I understand the general gist of how lip reading works. Hey Kazuma, I’m going to try to read what they’re saying, so give me the correct answer once I’m done okay?” Aqua loudly announced.</p>

  <p>The surrounding people turned to look at Aqua.</p>

  <p>As they all knew that Aqua was an excellent performer, they looked towards her with brimming expectations.</p>

  <p>Well, lip-reading is sort-of like a performance skill, so she might be unexpectedly good at it. I then started reading what Darkness and the youth were saying.</p>

  <p>’By the way, Dustiness-sama, would you mind if we discuss a potential engagement?’</p>

  <p>“By the may, Dustiness-sama, would you mind if we discuss a potential engorgement?”</p>

  <p> Almost, but not quite.</p>

  <p>Hearing ’Dustiness-sama’ mentioned, the surrounding onlookers seemed to understand what Aqua was doing.</p>

  <p>’Count Befrantz, House Dustiness shall politely decline your proposal…‘</p>

  <p>“See-through Pantsu-loving Dustiness shall wifely…”</p>

  <p>“Alright, people are looking so stop! Don’t start weird rumours about Darkness again!”</p>

  <p>The day after. It turns out that my hurried efforts to stop her were for naught. Darkness’ home had received a colourful variety of odd presents at once, and a troubled Darkness, who was suddenly the receiving end of a mysterious case of sexual harassment, soon came to consult with me-</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
