<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Regarding the Princess’ Adolescence</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Regarding the Princess’ Adolescence</h1>

  <p>From Gamers First-Print Limited Edition</p>

  <p>Translator: yuNS</p>

  <p>Editors: Keel the Swift, Deus-ex-Machina</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 10</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>The great nation of Casinos, Elroad.</p>

  <p>For one reason or another, despite being Iris’ bodyguards, we were currently staying at a rather classy hotel.</p>

  <p>And at a corner of the hotel, in Iris’ room-</p>

  <p>“-So Lalatina and I are acquaintances from when I was still a child. I admired Lalatina like a sister, and I often walked behind her.”</p>

  <p>Sitting on a nearby chair, I joined Iris and Darkness as they talked about the past. They were in their pajamas and sitting on the bed.</p>

  <p>“When I was still living in the castle, right? How nostalgic… When Iris-sama was still unable to speak well, I remember playing horsey horsey with her to get her to stop crying somehow…”</p>

  <p>Saying that, Darkness showed a nostalgic, warm smile.</p>

  <p>“Just curious, but ’horsey horsey’ has nothing to do with your special interests right?”</p>

  <p>“Don’t defile Iris-sama and I in your mind! Even I had a time when I was pure and innocent, ok!?”</p>

  <p>Darkness glanced in my direction with a vexed direction.</p>

  <p>“…A-, Are you saying that you’re no longer pure or innocent…?”</p>

  <p>Towards my abridged reply, Darkness grabbed a hold of me.</p>

  <p>“I’m saying that I’m no longer pure or innocent because of the various things that you’ve done to me! I’ve been seen naked by you. I’ve washed your back. I’ve been tied up by you, and now that I think about it, you’ve even taken off my underwear…!”</p>

  <p>“EEEEHHHHH!?”</p>

  <p>As Darkness angrily rattled on, Iris reflexively cried out.</p>

  <p>“Geez you, what are you blurting out in front of Iris all of a sudden. Geez, as usual, your mere existence is a detriment to child education.”</p>

  <p>“Y-Y-Y-Y-, You’re mistaken! Iris-sama, that was just a figure of speech of sorts, so…!”</p>

  <p>Darkness, who was now exposed, began to panic.</p>

  <p>“N-, Now that I think about it, onii-sama told me about this before, that there was a time when Lalatina washed his back…”</p>

  <p>“What have you been teaching Iris-sama!? Oi, how much did you tell her!”</p>

  <p>Hearing what Iris said, Darkness continued to dig her own grave.</p>

  <p>’How much did you tell her?‘ she says. That’s basically the same as confirming everything that I’ve said.</p>

  <p>“Ah… Lalatina, the Lalatina which I once admired as an onee-sama, has become an adult before I realized it. She’s going to a faraway place now, isn’t she…”</p>

  <p>The eyes which once looked at her as a sister, were now looking at her as an adult woman. Darkness could not hide her bewilderment.</p>

  <p>“You’re mistaken, Iris-sama! Despite what this man has told you, I’m sure that most of it was just accidents and…!”</p>

  <p>“What do you mean by ’accidents’? Just a little while back, you told me that you couldn’t take off your panties, and in the private space of the bathroom, you even told me to take off your underwear.”</p>

  <p>“Kazuma, I’m begging you, just don’t say anymore!”</p>

  <p>Witnessing our conversation, Iris began to giggle.</p>

  <p>“I-, Iris-sama?”</p>

  <p>To Darkness, who was perplexed by the turn of events, Iris happily laughed.</p>

  <p>“Seeing onii-sama, who I think of as a brother, and Lalatina, who I think of as a sister, fighting like this, it feels like a sibling scuffle.”</p>

  <p>Dumbfounded, Darkness and I reflexively turned to meet each other’s gaze.</p>

  <p>Since Iris wasn’t able to see her brother often, and doesn’t have any other siblings, she probably didn’t get the chance to have a sibling scuffle.</p>

  <p>Darkness, seeing Iris’ warm smile-</p>

  <p>“Iris-sama, this may be lacking in respect, but for the first time in a long while, shall we sleep together like sisters? Fortunately, the room is the highest-class that they have at this hotel, and as you can see, the bed is rather wide…”</p>

  <p>“Yes! It would be just like when we were children… …Uhm, onii-sama? Is there a problem?”</p>

  <p>Smiling gleefully together with Iris, I excitedly bounced off my chair. In response, Iris turned and looked at me with puzzlement.</p>

  <p>“No, if we’re going to sleep with the three of us as siblings, then I was going to change into my pajamas.”</p>

  <p>“Go die!”</p>

  <p>As I was bathed in Darkness’ irrational shouting, Iris bewilderedly said.</p>

  <p>“Onii-sama wants to sleep with me as well? Uhm, if Lalatina is fine with that, I don’t really mind…”</p>

  <p>“Iris-sama, do you understand what you’re saying!? I fully realize that it may be rude for me to voice this, but what you said just now was absolutely outrageous and idiotic!”</p>

  <p>Whilst Darkness - expectedly - objected without any consideration for the time, I, who was given permission by Iris, hurriedly turned to head to my room to retrieve my pajamas and pillow…</p>

  <p>“Lalatina, onii-sama is not the kind of person who would do anything when he’s sleeping with someone else. Without the agreement of the other party, he will absolutely not cross the line.”</p>

  <p>“I-, Is that right…”</p>

  <p>Oi.</p>

  <p>“See Darkness? Despite you knowing me for a much longer time, even Iris understands me better. To start with, if the three of us are sleeping together, aren’t you the one who’s most likely to ’amuse yourself’ in the situation? Listen Iris, this onee-san which you admire as a sister, entered the bath on her own accord despite me being inside it, lured me by saying ’let’s become adults together’, and suddenly kissed me as well, alright?”</p>

  <p>“Lala-!?”</p>

  <p>“It’s a misun-…! Iris-sama, you’re mistaken! N-, No, It’s… P-, Please don’t look at me like that Iris-samaaaaa!”</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
