<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>The Basic Equipment to take down a Demon King</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>The Basic Equipment to take down a Demon King</h1>

  <p>Translator: Cannongerbil</p>

  <p>Editors: Ulti</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 15</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>As I turned my sword around in my hand, I mumbled to myself.</p>

  <p>“… I really want a magic sword.”</p>

  <p>Yes, a magic sword.</p>

  <p>Even though I’ve taken down more than a few Demon King’s Generals, my equipment was still pretty crappy.</p>

  <p>If it was a game, I would’ve gotten my hands on the rare equipment that they were using or found some amazing item hidden away in their stronghold by now, but that hasn’t happened at all.</p>

  <p>… Just then, Megumin suddenly looked up from her book titled “How to Prepare Beef and Potato Stew for Dummies” and said.</p>

  <p>“Isn’t your Chunchunmaru a pretty rare sword already? What part of it is unsatisfactory?”</p>

  <p>“There’s the name, for one.”</p>

  <p>Indeed, this sword was forged with the vague ideas of Japanese sword forging techniques that I gleaned from documentaries and the like.</p>

  <p>Of course, it’s not as well made as a proper katana, and it has a very painful-sounding name engraved into the blade.</p>

  <p>“It’s a little boastful for me to be saying this, but there aren’t that many swords that have such a cool name, you know? I’ve said this before, but your naming sense is really strange.”</p>

  <p>“I never dreamed that there’d come a day when you’d be criticizing my naming sense…”</p>

  <p>Just where does this girl get her confidence from?</p>

  <p>“Still, a magic sword, huh? I do understand why you might want something like that. It’d be hard to take down the Demon King without a powerful magic weapon, after all.”</p>

  <p>“I’m not doing this for such a grand purpose, so stop it.”</p>

  <p>Still, even though I’m not going after the Demon King, there are quite a few monsters that can’t be harmed without a magic weapon in this world.</p>

  <p>I am a pretty famous adventurer by this point, after all.</p>

  <p>Maybe it’s about time I get my hands on a magic weapon or two.</p>

  <p>“… Oh, very well. Let’s go get a magic sword, then.”</p>

  <p>Megumin said in the same tone of voice one would use to say ’I’m off to pick up some milk.‘</p>

  <p> </p>

  <p>-Not long after, we arrived at the adventurer’s guild.</p>

  <p>“See, there’s a magic sword.”</p>

  <p>“I want to say it’s been some time, but what’s going on now?”</p>

  <p>Standing in front of us was the Magic Sword Guy.</p>

  <p>“Say, Megumin, if I take away the magic sword from the Magic Sword Guy, wouldn’t he just become a regular guy?”</p>

  <p>“True, that magic sword really is that guy’s only unique point…”</p>

  <p>“Hey, wait, even I do have plenty of other memorable traits! And would you please call me by name!?”</p>

  <p>The Magic Sword Guy started raising a fuss for some reason.</p>

  <p>“You’ll bother the other people if you shout like that, Magic Sword Guy. Anyway, Kazuma here wants a magic sword. If I recall, you have a powerful sword called Gram, right?”</p>

  <p>“Why is it that you can remember my sword’s name but not mine!?”</p>

  <p>The Magic Sword Guy still seemed just as agitated.</p>

  <p>Still, something just came to mind.</p>

  <p>“Megumin, Gram is a magic sword that only he can make use of. I don’t think I’d be able to make proper use of it.”</p>

  <p>“Is that so? I really think it’s a waste for the Magic Sword Guy to have such a powerful weapon when he can’t even manage to take down a single Demon King’s General…”</p>

  <p>The magic sword that the Magic Sword Guy has is a divine treasure that is linked only to him.</p>

  <p>“A-A waste… Hey, wait, even I managed to take down a few high bounty targets.”</p>

  <p>“… Well, it can’t be helped in that case. Let’s head over to our next stop, then.”</p>

  <p>“Listen to me!”</p>

  <p>-And the next stop that Megumin was talking about is…</p>

  <p> </p>

  <p>“Welcome, dear customers who are looking for a magic sword. Moi stocks various magic weapons in this store, so feel free to pick one you like.”</p>

  <p>“Ah, yeah, if you want a magic sword, a magic item store is of course a good place to stop at.”</p>

  <p>A very jovial Vanir welcomed us as we stepped foot inside Wiz’s magic item shop.</p>

  <p>“Kazuma, look at this. From what I can tell, this is a very powerful magic item! Moreover, this thing feels really compatible with me!”</p>

  <p>“Hou? As expected of a Crimson Demon, your eye when it comes to magic items is sharp indeed. That’s a rare magic sword that will explode when you pour mana into it.”</p>

  <p>“I’m not buying that.”</p>

  <p>Judging from my past experiences, Vanir will definitely try to pawn off something useless onto me, so to head that off, I took out a small but heavy bag filled with coins.</p>

  <p>“Use your powers to help me find a magic sword that I can use and isn’t trash.”</p>

  <p>“Leave it to me, dear customer! Fuhahahahaha! Behold, my powers of foresight…!”</p>

  <p>After receiving the bag, Vanir’s eyes started glowing…</p>

  <p>“… … Brat, magic swords tend to choose their own wielders…”</p>

  <p>“Don’t say anything more! You’re just going to say that there isn’t a magic sword that I can use, right!?”</p>

  <p>Great, this again! The limitations of me having the weakest job rears its head yet again!</p>

  <p>But Vanir shook his head and handed a small knife case from the shelves over to me.</p>

  <p>“Isn’t this a cooking knife?”</p>

  <p>Inside the case is a fish filleting knife.</p>

  <p>“This is the magic item, ’Fish Slayer’. It’s is enchanted to be more damaging against aquatic creatures. Moi heartily recommends this item.”</p>

  <p>“You bastard, are you telling to pick a fight with a strong enemy armed with a cooking knife!? I’m not going into battle with a cooking knife! … But it looks quite cool, so I’ll buy it anyway!”</p>

  <p> </p>

  <p>-And thus, my kitchen was equipped with a magic sword.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
