<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>The Famous Goddess of Axel</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>The Famous Goddess of Axel</h1>

  <p>Translator: Cannongerbil</p>

  <p>Editors: Striker, Ulti</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 16</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>As I was walking down the streets of Axel to pick up dinner, an older lady I didn’t know hit on me.</p>

  <p>“Pardon me, may I have a moment of your time?”</p>

  <p>She had a small bottle in her hands and seemed quite troubled.</p>

  <p>“You’re one of Aqua-san’s companions, yes? I really want to buy Aqua’s delicious water, but is she not selling today?”</p>

  <p>“I’m sorry, I’m not following you at all.”</p>

  <p>No, scratch that, she wasn’t hitting on me after all.</p>

  <p>“No, usually, Aqua-san would bring out her sparkling and delicious water around this time, but…”</p>

  <p>She was doing such things?</p>

  <p>“Well, due to certain events, she’s not in town at the moment.”</p>

  <p>“When I use Aqua’s water for my cooking, my children don’t get any allergic reactions…”</p>

  <p>The woman drooped her shoulders as she made to leave.</p>

  <p>It’s rare to see that girl be of actual help to others.</p>

  <p>And, just when I was mildly impressed for a moment, I heard a voice coming from the main street.</p>

  <p>“Come one, come all! I, Pierre, one of the great street performers competing for the number one spot in the capital, shall amaze you all!”</p>

  <p>Looking towards the source of the voice, I saw that quite a sizeable crowd has gathered.</p>

  <p>“The town of Axel is famous for making street performers run off in tears! Will my acts be fit for your discerning gaze!?”</p>

  <p>The great street performer Pierre gave an exaggerated bow.</p>

  <p>This is the first time I’ve heard about this town driving street performers to leave in tears…</p>

  <p>A small smattering of applause met Pierre, and the entertainer reached into his bag.</p>

  <p>“Now, first off, a greeting! What could be in this bag, I wonder…!”</p>

  <p>A few children within the crowd started excitedly shouting.</p>

  <p>“A rookie killer! A rookie killer bigger than the bag will jump out!”</p>

  <p>“No, a flock of crows will fly out! They’ll fly out and draw a picture in the sky! Aqua-nee-chan did it!”</p>

  <p>Pierre suddenly stopped moving after taking stock of exactly what his audience expected.</p>

  <p>“… No, this is just some candy I’m giving out as a greeting. I haven’t started my act yet. This is just a candy box. Here, little lady, a sweet for you.”</p>

  <p>He took those sweets out of his bag and tried to smooth things over.</p>

  <p>“It would seem that the residents of this town are no strangers to street performances! Very well, I shall skip straight to the eighteenth act! Behold, the disappearing act!”</p>

  <p>At Pierre’s words, a lady dressed in a bunny girl outfit strode up next to him.</p>

  <p>“Disappearing act? Don’t tell me…”</p>

  <p>“He’s joking right? There’s no way he’s being serious, right?”</p>

  <p>Hearing the astonished response of the crowd, Pierre cheerfully raised his voice.</p>

  <p>“Oh, seems like that sparked some interest! Behold! When I cover her with this cloak, she’ll disappear in an instant! Of course, this is just an ordinary cloak! No tricks or magic here!”</p>

  <p>At those words, screams erupted from the crowd.</p>

  <p>“Stop it, what are you trying to do to that lady!?”</p>

  <p>“This guy is crazy! Go call a policeman or an adventurer or someone!”</p>

  <p>Seeing the children wailing, and the adults running off to find the police, Pierre seems to have picked up on something odd with the crowd.</p>

  <p>“I-I don’t know why everyone’s so agitated, but… Well, why don’t you see it in action before judging!? Now, is everyone prepared!? One, two, three!”</p>

  <p>The moment Pierre covered the lady with the cloak, the crowd cried out in shock.</p>

  <p>At the same time, the cloak floated gently to the ground…</p>

  <p>“N-No! O-Onee-san is-!”</p>

  <p>“She disappeared! This guy is really crazy! He’s definitely dangerous!”</p>

  <p>“Get someone here, this guy is a criminal! He’s a murderer!”</p>

  <p>Seeing the panicked crowd, Pierre’s mask of composure finally broke.</p>

  <p>“Please wait, this is just a show! Why is this happening!? What is wrong with these people!? Everyone’s reactions have been completely odd!”</p>

  <p>After the policemen who rushed here heard the explanation from the crowd.</p>

  <p>“… Great street performer Pierre, could you please accompany us to the station?”</p>

  <p>“Why!? What is wrong with this town!? I just performed an act in the streets! For what reason must I be arrested!?”</p>

  <p>“That’s obviously because you caused that woman to vanish! You just said there aren’t any tricks or magic!”</p>

  <p>“There really is something wrong with this town! Of course there’s a trick to it! That’s a woman that just knows how to use teleport-!”</p>

  <p>As I saw Pierre getting surrounded by the police, I finally understood why the residents of this town were reacting like this.</p>

  <p>It’s probably because of that party trick using goddess who can really make stuff disappear without tricks or magic.</p>

  <p>“What, so it was a trick after all. Well, once you’ve seen the real thing…”</p>

  <p>“What, it’s just teleport? What a boring trick…”</p>

  <p>“Come to think of it, I don’t see Aqua-san anywhere. She usually shows up long before now to break the performer’s heart.”</p>

  <p>Selling water and performing party tricks.</p>

  <p>I thought that I knew Aqua pretty well, but it seems like there’s still plenty I’ve yet to know about her.</p>

  <p>With that on my mind, I did my shopping and walked back to my mansion…</p>

  <p>“Ah, Kazuma, it’s good that you showed up! It seems like Aqua racked up a pretty huge tab at the bar! They just sent us the receipt…”</p>

  <p>When I bring her back, I’m going to have to keep a much closer eye on her.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
