<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>The Goddess, Working Hard.</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>The Goddess, Working Hard.</h1>

  <p>From the Digital Special Edition</p>

  <p>Translator: yuNS</p>

  <p>Editors: Keel the Swift, Deus-ex-Machina</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 10</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>11:00 a.m.</p>

  <p>Aqua stumbled down the stairs in her pajamas, still half-asleep.</p>

  <p>She flopped onto the sofa and watched Megumin, who had kitchen duty today, make lunch. For Aqua, it counted as breakfast.</p>

  <p>Despite looking ready to pass out again, she ate twice as much as everyone else and claimed her spot on the sofa.</p>

  <p>She put Emperor Zell on her belly and started her afternoon nap.</p>

  <p>1:00 p.m.</p>

  <p>After her nap, Aqua went back to her room and changed into her usual outfit.</p>

  <p>Looks like she had time to kill, so she decided to go for a walk.</p>

  <p>She hit up Darkness, who was sipping black tea and reading a book, for some pocket money.</p>

  <p>In exchange for washing dishes tomorrow, a thoroughly interrupted Darkness handed Aqua a few coins.</p>

  <p>2:00 p.m.</p>

  <p>For some reason, an elderly man from the neighborhood paid his respects to Aqua.</p>

  <p>It was that old guy who’s infamous for hanging around at night. That can’t be a good sign.</p>

  <p>Delighted to be worshipped, Aqua cast ’Heal’ on him and went on her way.</p>

  <p>When she spotted a cat curled up asleep, she stopped and stared.</p>

  <p>It looked like she wanted to pet it, but held back after remembering Chomusuke’s usual rejection.</p>

  <p>“It’d be cruel to wake you up, so I’ll let you off this time,” she declared to nobody in particular. With a satisfied nod, she walked off.</p>

  <p>For the record, her loud declaration woke the cat up anyway.</p>

  <p>3:00 p.m.</p>

  <p>As the town bell rang to mark the hour, Aqua kept wandering around without any particular purpose.</p>

  <p>When she spotted a crêpe stall, she immediately spent the money Darkness had given her earlier on a crêpe.</p>

  <p>Even though she’d just eaten a ton, she apparently still planned to eat more.</p>

  <p>Maybe she treated “a three o’clock snack” like some kind of sacred duty.</p>

  <p>Then she smugly declared, “Today’s crêpes aren’t bad.” She seemed to be a regular here.</p>

  <p>They even gave her some leftover trimmings.</p>

  <p>Happily biting into her crêpe, she carried on.</p>

  <p>3:30 p.m.</p>

  <p>Aqua barged into a group of kids building sandcastles in the park.</p>

  <p>Using ’Create Water’ to dampen the sand, she crafted a life-size goblin sculpture.</p>

  <p>Wearing a childish, triumphant grin, she basked in the kids’ praise for her goblin masterpiece.</p>

  <p>I honestly couldn’t tell who the kid was, but after soaking up the praise, Aqua told them, “Tweak it, smash it, do whatever you want with it,” and left.</p>

  <p>For the record, a mischievous kid immediately dropkicked the goblin to pieces.</p>

  <p>4:00 p.m.</p>

  <p>She splashed into the town fountain and fished out a coin like it was perfectly normal.</p>

  <p>A passing policeman told her to stop. Somehow, Aqua was the one who got mad. “Coins thrown into fountains are offerings to me, the one who controls water!” she snapped, picking a fight.</p>

  <p>Apparently realizing from her words and behavior that she was with the Axis cult, the policeman grimaced, muttered, “Yeah, yeah, I get it,” and beat a hasty retreat.</p>

  <p>He clearly wanted to stay far away from trouble.</p>

  <p>4:30 p.m.</p>

  <p>Only a few minutes after entering Wiz’s Magic Item Shop, Aqua walked right back out.</p>

  <p>Vanir came charging out after her and hurled salt her way. Apparently she’d done something and gotten herself kicked out.</p>

  <p>[TL Note: Salt is used to purify an area and drive away evil spirits.]</p>

  <p>Vanir pointed straight at Aqua’s face, said something, and went back inside. Then Aqua cast some magic on the door.</p>

  <p>The door began to glow with white light. It looked like she’d put up some kind of barrier out of sheer spite.</p>

  <p>Vanir started yelling from inside the shop, but Aqua covered her ears, pretended she couldn’t hear him, and ran off.</p>

  <p>From how smoothly it all played out, this clearly wasn’t the first time.</p>

  <p>5:00 p.m.</p>

  <p>Still wandering the streets, Aqua got thanked by a fishmonger for using ’Create Water’ to give the fish clean water. Then she annoyed the liquor shop owner by peering into one of the barrels.</p>

  <p>She seemed pretty familiar with the shopping street. She greeted the shopkeepers, got praised for filling bottles with clean water, and stayed in a great mood the whole time.</p>

  <p>Chewing on the dried squid she’d been given as thanks, she finally made it to the Eris Church.</p>

  <p>Still chewing, she hopped into the line where they were handing out rations to the poor. She seemed to be a regular here too, and the Eris priest sighed as she handed Aqua a piece of bread.</p>

  <p>Then she got back in line. Again. And again.</p>

  <p>In the end, after getting scolded and told to stop, she went on her way with a ridiculous amount of bread.</p>

  <p>6:00 p.m.</p>

  <p>After arriving at the Axis cult’s church, Aqua started handing out bread to passersby with Cecily.</p>

  <p>“The Eris cult isn’t the only one that gives rations to the less fortunate! The Axis cult does it too!” Axis this, Axis that. She just kept shouting.</p>

  <p>…Once I’d seen enough, I decided there was nothing more for me to do and went home.</p>

  <p> </p>

  <p>“-Hey, Kazuma, listen. Today I did a ton of good deeds befitting someone in a holy line of work, you know? Some old man worshipped me after I cast Heal on him, I got praised by children, I sealed up the shop where a devil is living, I was thanked all over the shopping street, and I did charity work with the church. So, as a reward for my admirable hard work, could I have some spending money…?”</p>

  <p>“I finally decided to answer the question of ’what the heck do you even do all day’ by tailing you since this morning using my ’Lurk’ skill. What the hell is wrong with you!? There’s no way you’re actually a goddess, right!?”</p>


  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
