<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Continued Explosions Short Story: The Hardworking Thief Girl!</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Continued Explosions Short Story: The Hardworking Thief Girl!</h1>

  <p>Digital Short Story</p>
  
  <p>Intermediate Translator: lolihunter2 yukira</p>

  <p>Translator: Uranophane</p>

  <p>Editors: Deus-ex-machina, Keel the Swift</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Continued Explosions Volume 1</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>While on a stroll around the streets, I ran into an unlikely combo.</p>

  <p>“Come to the Axis church! Join the Axis cult!”</p>

  <p>Cecily, the Axis priest, preached loudly.</p>

  <p>In addition…</p>

  <p>“Axis cult… Please join the axis cult…”</p>

  <p>As if kidnapped by Cecily, Chris carried a massive amount of Axis invitation letters. She handed out the letters with a soulless expression.</p>

  <p>“What are you two even doing?”</p>

  <p>I struck up a conversation with the duo. Chris suddenly became lively, as if she had uncovered a national secret.</p>

  <p>“Ah, Megumin-san! Distributing invitations [check], of course! We’re currently hiring, would you lend us a hand please? As for the reward, the lunch is on me!”</p>

  <p>“Sure I can. Except I was wondering how come even Eris cultists are doing this kind of thing…”</p>

  <p>Chris turned awkward. Still, she continued to obediently hand out invitations to passersby…</p>

  <p>“I was super bored, so I headed to the base for fun. I ended up hearing Cecily complaining about ’goddess Eris coming to the mortal world for no reason and disrupting the faith for Axis believers’; and that ’this goddess is way too inconsiderate and reckless’. After thinking about it, I felt that Axis cultists are indeed in pitiful, so I decided to help them for just today…”</p>

  <p>How could she be so gullible.</p>

  <p>“Axis cultists’ claims have no credibility to speak of, so take them with many grains of salt. Besides, goddess Eris merely spontaneously visited the mortal plane and caused some unrest, it’s nothing worth worrying over for an Eris cultist like you.”</p>

  <p>“I……I think I’d rather work on helping the Axis cult for now…”</p>

  <p>Not sure why; but oh well, as long as she’s OK with it.</p>

  <p>“Then, how should I help? Something like stuffing invitations into every household’s mailbox?”</p>

  <p>“No; since Megumin is rarely with us, let’s make use of *that* strategy right here and now!”</p>

  <p>Cecily smiled maliciously.</p>

  <p>-On the streets of Axel…</p>

  <p>I cried for help to the pedestrians.</p>

  <p>“Help! Someone, please! My pet kitty got assaulted by evil Eris cultists and is barely conscious!”</p>

  <p>I forcefully constrained the frantic Chomusuke to stop her from dashing madly around my legs.</p>

  <p>Then, with her eyes drained of life due to sheer hopelessness, Chris said,</p>

  <p>“M-my Eris cult instincts told me that this black cat is in fact the embodiment of a demon. So, in Lady Eris’ name, I had to execute it. I’m not sorry. If you need help, the Eris Church can provide it…”</p>

  <p>After Chris mechanically read out her script, Cecily jumped out from the onlooking crowd.</p>

  <p>“Stop right there, Eris cult scum! Bullying such a weak and helpless girl’s pet cat, then forcing her to take it to doctors at the Eris Church, where you milk her for money! While the police allow such hideous strategies; Aqua-sama, however, will never tolerate it!”</p>

  <p>Gossip broke out among the crowd.</p>

  <p>“Isn’t that Kazuma-san’s girlfriend Megumin? What kind of new trick is this?”</p>

  <p>“Even Chris-san participated in this… And here I thought she was normal…”</p>

  <p>“Hey, don’t make eye-contact, you’ll be dragged into some shady business…”</p>

  <p>They seem to have had enough.</p>

  <p>“What a troublesome situation. Megumin-san and Chris-san are both too famous, this strategy couldn’t work! This way, my perfect plan-consisting of me, the beautiful Axis cultist, magically reviving the kitty and causing Megumin to cry out of thankfulness before joining the cult, ultimately bringing everyone to join along with her-has been foil-”</p>

  <p>“I only said that I would help; I never agreed to join your cult! Besides, my limited acting skills simply won’t suffice for the effect that you want!”</p>

  <p>Just now.</p>

  <p>I felt a presence behind me, and turned around-</p>

  <p>“What are you all doing?”</p>

  <p>Behind me were Kazuma and Darkness who had gone to buy dinner.</p>

  <p>They both shared complicated expressions while looking at Chris pitifully.</p>

  <p>“N-n-n-n-n-no, Darkness! It’s not what it looks like! Let me explain, Assistant-kun! This was to make up to the Axis cult for the damage in faith caused by goddess Eris visiting our world!”</p>

  <p>Darkness gently placed her hand on Chris’ shoulder. Kazuma smiled bitterly beside her.</p>

  <p>“Chris… You can pour out your heart to us. So please don’t do stupid things like this and instead rely on me a little more…”</p>

  <p>“That, I can also help you with. So please stop undermining your role as the only ’normal person’, which you barely qualify for to begin with.”</p>

  <p>“It isn’t like that! Let me explain, you two! Please don’t look at me that way!”</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
