<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>The One with Azure Lightning Behind her</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>The One with Azure Lightning Behind her</h1>

  <p>Translator: Cannongerbil</p>

  <p>Editors: Keel The Swift, Ulti</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 14</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>As I was wandering around the Crimson Demon Village, I stumbled upon Aqua shadowboxing.</p>

  <p>“… What are you doing?”</p>

  <p>“Ah, Kazuma, what a coincidence. I ran into a beautiful onee-san a while ago who said ’Considering you’re friends of Megumin, allow me to offer you a little warning. Wind… Darkness… And a divine light… please remember these words.‘ before disappearing right in front of me. I don’t get what she said at all, so I’ve been keeping guard here to prevent her from escaping.”</p>

  <p>That’s the same technique the Crimson Demons showed us the last time they were here where they used light refraction magic to make us think that they’ve teleported.</p>

  <p>“Sacred Break Spell!”</p>

  <p>“!?”</p>

  <p>As Aqua chanted the spell, the sound of someone gasping in surprise and rolling out of the way could be heard in response.</p>

  <p>“See, you heard that, right? That surprised noise when I pretended to cast my magic?”</p>

  <p>“I-I kinda feel sorry for her, so cut that out…”</p>

  <p>Just then.</p>

  <p>“I just took my eyes off you two for a moment and you’re causing trouble again…”</p>

  <p>“Umm, don’t bully my clansmen too much.”</p>

  <p>Darkness and Megumin stumbled upon us.</p>

  <p>“Hey, Darkness, there should be a pretty onee-san hiding around there, so please search and catch her for me. I want to ask her what she meant earlier.”</p>

  <p>“Don’t worry, I’ll do that for you-”</p>

  <p>Darkness grabbed my collar before I could get to work.</p>

  <p>“Darkness, please keep a firm grasp on that man. Aqua, it’s a common tradition to tell tourists some mysterious phrases before disappearing. There’s no particular deeper meaning, so please let her go.”</p>

  <p>What an annoying tradition.</p>

  <p>“By the way, what are the two of you doing? Taking a walk?”</p>

  <p>“No, we are… Rather than explaining, it’d be easier to just show you.”</p>

  <p>Megumin pointed into the distance.</p>

  <p>“Yo, the one with azure lightning behind her! Good morning. So you’ve come back from Axel?”</p>

  <p>“Roaring Thunder Yunyun! Good morning. How’s the outside world? Has it changed much?”</p>

  <p>“A-Ah, good morning! Good morning! It doesn’t seem to have changed very much!”</p>

  <p>Standing right there was Yunyun who was being greeted by the passing Crimson Demons.</p>

  <p>Probably being embarrassed by being addressed with those titles, Yunyun’s face was bright red and tears clung to the sides of her eyes.</p>

  <p>“Kazuma, what are your thoughts after seeing that?”</p>

  <p>“It feels like Yunyun is being bullied.”</p>

  <p>In response to my honest answer, Megumin frowned.</p>

  <p>“No, seriously, please look at Yunyun being surrounded by everyone.”</p>

  <p>I took another look…</p>

  <p>“Oh, Yunyun, that azure lightning is glowing brightly behind you today too!”</p>

  <p>“Roaring Thunder Yunyun, have you put on some weight lately? It feels like you’ve gained a bit of flesh…”</p>

  <p>“Please stop calling me by that name! And I didn’t get fat, I just grew up!”</p>

  <p>… …</p>

  <p>“So, what do you think after seeing her with that smug looking frown while everyone fawns over her and calls her by her title!?”</p>

  <p>“I-Is that so? She doesn’t seem to be enjoying it to me…”</p>

  <p>Seemingly at her limits, Megumin walked over to Yunyun at the center of that crowd.</p>

  <p>“Yunyun, you sure seem elated to have everyone address you with such a cool title.”</p>

  <p>“What are you saying!? Do I look happy right now!? Are your eyes made out of glass!?”</p>

  <p>“They are the same red ones that you have!”</p>

  <p>Seeing the sudden appearance of a rabid dog, the Crimson Demons who were crowded around Yunyun quickly dispersed.</p>

  <p>“… Ah, I see, that’s how it is. Megumin sure can’t be honest. Despite what she says, she still headed out there to help Yunyun when she’s suffering under those embarrassing nicknames…”</p>

  <p>Darkness nodded as she looked upon the two and smiled warmly…</p>

  <p>“Megumin, you had a title back in Axel too!”</p>

  <p>“I couldn’t care less for an embarrassing title like that! One with azure lightning behind her back, exchange nicknames with me!”</p>

  <p>… …</p>

  <p>“Do you really believe that?”</p>

  <p>“… Maybe not…”</p>

  <p>At a place far away from Axel.</p>

  <p>“I don’t like my current title, but the title that you have is…”</p>

  <p>“Fine, I’ll challenge you! If I win, I’ll be taking your title for my own!”</p>

  <p>A very familiar scene and is taking place—</p>

  <p>“Sorry, I don’t want your title, so I’ll pass on this challenge…”</p>

  <p>“W-What!? Yet you were the one who keeps badgering me to accept your challenges!”</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
