<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>The Strongest Devil Summoner of the Crimson Demons</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>The Strongest Devil Summoner of the Crimson Demons</h1>

  <p>Translator: Cannongerbil</p>

  <p>Editors: Ulti</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 14</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>After coming to the Crimson Demon Village, I’ve had nothing but time on my hands.</p>

  <p>There really isn’t much to do in a small village out in the countryside.</p>

  <p>Aqua and Darkness ran off somewhere, and Megumin left Komekko in my care before busying herself with housework.</p>

  <p>And thus, Komekko and I ended up playing in the backyard.</p>

  <p> </p>

  <p>“—Right, come play with onii-chan.”</p>

  <p>“I got it. Nee-chan told me to play with nii-chan too.”</p>

  <p>That girl… she better remember this.</p>

  <p>… Oh, I thought of something. This will be extremely effective on a siscon like her.</p>

  <p>I took out the snacks that I brought along as a gift.</p>

  <p>“Hey, Komekko, between me and Megumin, who do you like the most? I’ll give you this snack if you-”</p>

  <p>“I like nii-chan more than nee-chan.”</p>

  <p>Seeing Komekko snatch away the snack without a second thought, I briefly wondered if this is really okay.</p>

  <p>“A-Ah, nevermind. Repeat what you just told me to Megumin when she comes back later, and I’ll give you another snack.”</p>

  <p>“Okay!”</p>

  <p>Good girl.</p>

  <p>While hiding a snicker, I squatted down to Komekko’s height.</p>

  <p>“Now, then, what shall we play? House? Tag?”</p>

  <p>“Devil summoning.”</p>

  <p>… Is this why they’re called Crimson Demons?</p>

  <p>“Yeah, let’s leave that till you’re older, okay? Komekko is a Crimson Demon, so it’d be a real headache if you actually end up calling a real devil.”</p>

  <p>“Okay. I got scolded by a small goblin when I summoned him without an offering.”</p>

  <p>“Megumin! Megumin! Come over here, quick!”</p>

  <p>I yelled out in the direction of the house.</p>

  <p> </p>

  <p>“—Seriously, what’s the matter? I told you to keep Komekko company while I was handling housework, didn’t I?”</p>

  <p>Megumin ran over while wiping her hands on her apron.</p>

  <p>“Now’s not the time to be doing that. Your sister did something really amazing. Hey, Komekko, tell Megumin what you just told me.”</p>

  <p>“I like nii-chan more than nee-chan.”</p>

  <p>“What are you saying!? Komekko, I’ll apologize if I did anything bad! It really hurts, so please cut it out!”</p>

  <p>No, not that line.</p>

  <p>“I said it, so give me another snack.”</p>

  <p>“Kazuma, I’d like to have a word with you, so please come with me.”</p>

  <p>“That’s not it! I mean, I did tell her to say that to you in return for a snack, but that’s not why I called you here. Your sister has summoned a devil!”</p>

  <p>I hastily explained while handing the snack over to Komekko.</p>

  <p>In response, Megumin simply sighed.</p>

  <p>“That’s something that every Crimson Demon does at some point. I used to perform the ritual to summon the God of Destruction when I was a kid.”</p>

  <p>“Don’t say that with such a nostalgic expression! … Wait, what!? So, you’re saying it’s fine!? But Komekko was saying something about a small goblin…”</p>

  <p>Perhaps finding my panicked demeanor amusing, Megumin let out a small chuckle.</p>

  <p>“Summoning devils requires an extremely difficult and delicate ritual. On top of that, even if one has the talent to be a devil summoner, it would take at least a decade of hard work to summon even an imp, the weakest type of devil.”</p>

  <p>“Seriously?”</p>

  <p>But if that’s the case, what Komekko was talking about…?</p>

  <p>“Plus, even if the ritual does succeed, a goblin isn’t a devil, so there’s no way it’d be summoned. Komekko, you shouldn’t tease him too much, okay?”</p>

  <p>“Okay.”</p>

  <p>“Right then, I’ll get back to the housework. Please play with each other, alright?”</p>

  <p>After patting Komekko on the head, Megumin went back into the house.</p>

  <p>… So she was just teasing me…</p>

  <p>I thought that I just ran into yet another troublesome incident, but I guess it was just my imagination.</p>

  <p>Seriously, these two sisters keep throwing me for a loop.</p>

  <p>“See, your sister got angry because you said such things. It’s a little hypocritical coming from me, but lying is bad, okay?”</p>

  <p>“I didn’t lie.”</p>

  <p>Her stubbornness is just like that of her sister’s.</p>

  <p>“But Megumin just said it, didn’t she? You can’t summon a goblin with a summoning ritual.”</p>

  <p>“But it came out. I gave it the shell of a cicada as an offering, but it just scolded me. ’Don’t call upon me without a proper offering. I’ll let you off this time, so don’t do it again.‘ it said.”</p>

  <p>… …</p>

  <p>That bad feeling came back.</p>

  <p>“Say, can you describe that goblin to me?”</p>

  <p>Just in case, I confirmed with Komekko…</p>

  <p>“It was really small and black, and had claws, wings, and a tail.”</p>

  <p>“Megumin! Come over here, quick!”</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
