<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>The True Aspect of Violence</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>The True Aspect of Violence</h1>

  <p>Translator: Uranophane</p>

  <p>Editors: Cannongerbil, Keel the Swift, Deus Ex Machina, Ulti</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 12</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>“Owowowowow…! Hey, why do you only raise your claws against me!? We’ve lived under the same roof for almost a year by now. Isn’t it about time we reached some sort of understanding?”</p>

  <p>One afternoon after lunch, Aqua had been bothering a napping Chomusuke on the sofa and earned herself a painful scratch on her fingers.</p>

  <p>Chomusuke has always been full of mysteries, but recently she’s been gaining more and more human-like traits.</p>

  <p>Specifically, she’s been demanding baths more adamantly and refusing to eat stuff like raw fish, leftovers or pet food.</p>

  <p>“Ah! Stop right there! How dare you touch my biscuits! I hope you’re prepared for the consequence of stealing a goddess’ offerings!”</p>

  <p>Case in point, she’s now stealing snacks from Aqua.</p>

  <p>“This cat must really hate you. Even I’ve been getting along well with it. I often wake up from naps to it sleeping on my belly.”</p>

  <p>“And why does that happen? Is it because the two of you are evil spirits, so that’s why you two get along so well? Cats symbolize laziness, right? Could it be attracted to the epitome of laziness?”</p>

  <p>I can’t believe she has the gall to say that when she’s just as lazy as me.</p>

  <p>As she spoke, Chomusuke, who was laying on top of the plate of biscuits, suddenly turned to stare sharply at Aqua.</p>

  <p>“Oh, what’s this? Seems like you’re getting stared down right now. Let me translate her catspeak for you. ’While cats do seem to symbolize laziness, their true duty is to bring happiness to people in a lazy way-nya. You have the least say out of anyone on the topic of laziness-nya. From now on, you should stop calling yourself the Goddess of Water and start calling yourself the Goddess of Sloth-nya.”</p>

  <p>“You’re pretty brave to say that to my face! I will have to teach you and that arrogant ’nya nya nya’ furball a lesson today!”</p>

  <p>Seeing the Goddess of Violence charge forth, I picked up Chomusuke and backed off from her.</p>

  <p>“In addition to sloth, why not list violence under your name too huh, you mad goddess!? Get rid of that irritable attitude right- Oh? What is it? Do you have something so say?”</p>

  <p>Hearing my words, Chomusuke’s ears trembled slightly and she started nibbling my fingertip as if in protest.</p>

  <p>Being half of the embodiment of sloth, it probably doesn’t like being taken away on a whim.</p>

  <p>“Hey, Aqua, I wanna ask you something. Do you goddesses grow? Or in other words, say you lose more than half of your power, how would you go about replenishing it?”</p>

  <p>“Isn’t it obvious? It’s obviously faith-based. The power of goddesses comes from their beloved followers. By the way, even goddesses grow too, you know? I’ve only stopped growing because my beauty and power are both maxed out.”</p>

  <p>Where does this girl get her confidence from?</p>

  <p>Though, I’ve heard something nice.</p>

  <p>Gaining faith will speed up the process.</p>

  <p>“…O goddess, hallowed be thy name…”</p>

  <p>“Wait a minute, why are you suddenly praying to a cat? If you wanna pray, do it to me.”</p>

  <p>As I clasped my hands and prayed to Chomusuke on the sofa in hopes of letting it regain its power sooner, Aqua tugged on my shirt.</p>

  <p>At that moment,</p>

  <p>“Oh, have my honest prayers been answered?”</p>

  <p>“… … This thing… What does it find so attractive about Kazuma?”</p>

  <p>Chomusuke tentatively patted my knee as I prostrated on the carpet, then dashed onto my thighs and balled up.</p>

  <p>To willingly run to me, could this thing really be attracted to some kind of lazy aura like Aqua said?</p>

  <p>Though, since it still recognises Megumin as its owner, I have my doubts…</p>

  <p>Then,</p>

  <p>“I’m back.”</p>

  <p>Megumin’s voice came from the front door.</p>

  <p>Having done her daily explosion with Darkness, Megumin seemed completely drained as she flopped on top of the sofa.</p>

  <p>When Megumin saw Chomusuke resting on my lap, she-</p>

  <p>“Wuah, how could my familiar be sleeping in such a place without any consideration for its master who’s busy outside!? It’s been getting way too picky about food recently too. A willful demon like that deserves punishment!”</p>

  <p>“Nyaaargh!”</p>

  <p>-Swiftly grabbed Chomusuke and started playing with it.</p>

  <p>Kicking around in retaliation, Chomusuke’s face was pulled into all sorts of funny expressions…</p>

  <p>Ah, so that’s how it is.</p>

  <p>This goddess embodies more aspects than just sloth, right…</p>

  <p>“…? What is it, Kazuma? Why do you keep staring at my face like that?‘”</p>

  <p>Megumin cocked her head and asked as she continued to play with Chomusuke.</p>

  <p>“Sa-Say, Megumin, could you also let me hold Chomusuke?”</p>

  <p>“I refuse. If you really want to touch this furball that badly, then go clean the bathroom in my stead today.”</p>

  <p>“Ahhhh, how unreasonable!”</p>

  <p>Lying on the sofa, Megumin showed an arrogant attitude fitting for the master of the violent, black furball.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
