<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>The Undead Ruler of the Neighborhood Association</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>The Undead Ruler of the Neighborhood Association</h1>

  <p>From the Digital Edition</p>

  <p>Translator: yuNS</p>

  <p>Editors: Keel the Swift, Deus-ex-Machina</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 4</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>“…Someone brought the real deal here.”</p>

  <p>It was currently close to dusk.</p>

  <p>“What’s your problem!? Why are you always, always so stingy about me! All you ever do is make my life hard, penny-pincher Kazuma!”</p>

  <p>Smack-center in the town’s graveyard, Aqua and I conversed with one another.</p>

  <p>“U-, Uhm… Please you two, people should be arriving here soon, so…”</p>

  <p>Wiz, who had been forcefully brought here by Aqua, tried to mediate the situation.</p>

  <p>This all began yesterday afternoon.</p>

  <p>Amongst the many requests from the guild, one of them was to be a staff member for the test of courage being held by the neighbourhood association. Interested, Aqua took the request, but…</p>

  <p>“Are you retarded!? It’s just a test of courage by the neighbourhood association, so don’t bring real undead here! Also, there’s no point in a test of courage that doesn’t look scary whatsoever!”</p>

  <p>“What!? Are you trying to say that Wiz isn’t scary!? Are you trying to say that the stray ghosts over there are scarier!? Apologize! Apologize for hurting a lich’s pride! And Wiz, say something with a scary expression if you please!”</p>

  <p>“A-, Aqua-sama, uhm, I actually feel more hurt by what you said instead….”</p>

  <p>But what should we do now?</p>

  <p>I’m pretty sure the guild hired some adventurers to act as monsters, but at this rate the test of courage will be ruined by this idiot.</p>

  <p>Perhaps noticing my worries-</p>

  <p>“Uhm… It’ll be fine. Just leave this to me! Despite the way I am, my title of undead ruler isn’t just for show. I will be sure to give them a scare!”</p>

  <p>Wiz, with a clenched fist, announced such.</p>

  <p>The sun soon set, and the cemetery began to feel like a real cemetery. It was then-</p>

  <p>“Perfect! No matter how I look at it, this is a zombie alright!”</p>

  <p>“…You really are talented when it comes to irregular work.”</p>

  <p>Aqua nodded satisfied, drawing tools in hand.</p>

  <p>“I-, Is it really that amazing? How does my face look like right now…? I said that I would give everybody a scare, but I’d rather not overdo it…”</p>

  <p>Wiz, who had been given a Hollywood-level makeup by Aqua, said so with unease.</p>

  <p>“Well, I guess your zombie-makeup is good enough to make an elderly person have a heart attack on sight.”</p>

  <p>“I-, Is it really!?”</p>

  <p>“Oh, they’re coming! First, Kazuma and I will start a conversation with the participants. Then, when they’re off guard, jump out and give them a scare! Wiz, hide!”</p>

  <p>“Y-, Yes, I understand!”</p>

  <p>After Wiz hid behind the grave, Aqua and I went with cheery smiles to greet the participants.</p>

  <p>“-Huh? Kazuma also took the job?”</p>

  <p>I thought they were just participants, but it turns out that they’re just some familiar adventurers.</p>

  <p>Well that makes sense. It’d be pretty lonely if there was just one or two people doing this entire thing.</p>

  <p>“Ahh, Aqua and I were gonna talk to the participants like this to drop their guard, and then…”</p>

  <p>Just as I was explaining-</p>

  <p>“B-, BAHHHHHHHH-!”</p>

  <p>A voice that didn’t quite suit the dark cemetery sounded.</p>

  <p>According to plan, Wiz jumped from behind the shadow of the grave.</p>

  <p>“Ah, Wiz, this is a misunderstanding. These guys are here to-”</p>

  <p>“”“”“Owaaaah-!”“”“”</p>

  <p>Before I could finish explaining, the adventurers screamed in terror.</p>

  <p>Ah-, wait….</p>

  <p>“I-, It’s a zombie! It’s the real deal!”</p>

  <p>“Damn, that sure gave me a scare, but we’re lucky that it showed up before the participants!”</p>

  <p>“Ah shoot, I didn’t bring my weapons.”</p>

  <p>The adventurers unanimously such things.</p>

  <p>“…Huh?”</p>

  <p>Unable to grasp the situation, Wiz kept her arms raised like a zombie.</p>

  <p>Then, one of the adventurers pointed to Aqua.</p>

  <p>“No, we don’t need our weapons. We have Aqua-san here, don’t we?”</p>

  <p>“”“”Ah“”“”</p>

  <p>“Wha-? W-, What-!? P-, Please wait…”</p>

  <p>Ignoring Wiz-</p>

  <p>“”“”“Aqua-san, if you please.”“”“”</p>

  <p>“W-W-W-W-W-W-, Wait! I-I-, I’m not a zombie! Uhm, I’m not a zombie, so-”</p>

  <p>“T-, That’s right! She’s not a zombie. It’s just some sort of special makeup…”</p>

  <p>As Wiz and I hurriedly tried to resolve the misunderstanding, the adventurers tilted their heads in puzzlement.</p>

  <p>“…Oi, this zombie is talking.”</p>

  <p>“It even said that it’s not a zombie… What’s this? Some sort of rare subspecies?”</p>

  <p>“I don’t really get it. I really don’t, but just in case…”</p>

  <p>The adventurers nodded their heads.</p>

  <p>“”“”“… Since ’Turn Undead’ won’t hurt any living beings, Aqua-san, please go ahead and do it.”“”“”</p>

  <p>“…………U-, Uhm… I’ll hold back a bit, ok?”</p>

  <p>-That night. The zombie that ran away with all its might through the cemetery caused the test of courage to be bustling and lively.</p>

  <p>For some reason, Aqua got a special bonus.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
