<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Continued Explosions Short Story: The Value of a Young Girl is…</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Continued Explosions Short Story: The Value of a Young Girl is…</h1>

  <p>From the Toranoana First-print Limited Edition</p>
  
  <p>Translator: yuNS</p>

  <p>Editors: Deus-ex-machina, Keel the Swift</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Continued Explosions Volume 1</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>This was something that happened back when I was eating lunch at the tavern of the adventurer’s guild.</p>

  <p>“Megumin-san, may I have a moment?”</p>

  <p>The adventurer’s guild big-chested receptionist - one of the things the guild is known for - suddenly called out of me.</p>

  <p>“What is it? I haven’t done anything to deserve a lecture from you have I?”</p>

  <p>Hearing my response, the onee-san shook her head.</p>

  <p>“I haven’t come here today to lecture you, rather, I have a job I want you to take.”</p>

  <p>For them to tell me in person… the matter must be something that is worthy of my time.</p>

  <p>“If it’s about monster subjugation shouldn’t you go talk to Kazuma instead? I’m not the type to hesitate when asked to do these sorts of things, but he’ll undoubtedly get angry at me if I accept some sort of grand monster subjugation request out of the blue.”</p>

  <p>“I did not come to you for a subjugation-request either. Megumin-san, I want you to assist with a certain magic experiment.”</p>

  <p>-This nation has facilities known as ’Magic Research Institutes’.</p>

  <p>As the name would suggest the institute works day and night to develop new magic, increase magic potency, shorten the chants required, investigate the ties between monsters and magic, as well as a large variety of other research.</p>

  <p>And there was one institute in the outskirts of Axel, but…</p>

  <p>“I see. Basically, my awe-inspiring abilities and nigh-endless pool of magic power left a deep impression on you, and you would like to know the secret behind my might? I suppose that must be what you meant.”</p>

  <p>“It’s not to the extent you speak of. What we would like to know is the matters regarding the Crimson Magic Clan.”</p>

  <p>The institute’s onee-san replied to me in an emotionless and plain manner.</p>

  <p>Crimson Magic Clansmen were originally modified humans belonging to a technologically advanced nation.</p>

  <p>The nation has long since perished, so regrettably, the techniques and technologies used to perform this modification have all been lost.</p>

  <p>If they could replicate even a percent of this super-technology, then they would have a new means of fighting against the demon king army. That’s why they began to research the Crimson Magic Clan.</p>

  <p>So as requested, I changed into a simple white dress and stepped into the middle of a wide room.</p>

  <p>I don’t know what kind of research this was, but I can’t help but be bothered by the fact that all the researchers were female.</p>

  <p>“Now then, Megumin-san, could you divulge the matters regarding the Crimson Magic Clan from the top?”</p>

  <p>A researcher with a notebook in hand asked me whilst pushing her glasses up.</p>

  <p>“We Crimson Magic Clansmen are all born with high reserves of magic power. As you know already, we are given cool names unlike those of the masses as well as a code number.”</p>

  <p>The researcher who had been taking notes in a loud manner abruptly came to a halt.</p>

  <p>“…Ignoring the part about the cool names, this is the first time I’ve heard of these code numbers. What sort of thing are these code numbers? Are each and every clansmen given their own unique number?”</p>

  <p>“No, you’re mistaken. As you can see here, it’s something that we’re all born with…”</p>

  <p>Saying that, I rolled up my dress so that they would be able to get a fleeting glance at the number.</p>

  <p>Generally speaking, this is something I don’t want anyone else to see.</p>

  <p>Because I feel that something like this, that reminds everyone that we are in fact modified humans, should be kept a secret…</p>

  <p>“The thing on your butt is what the hero with a peculiar name called a ’barcode’ yes?”</p>

  <p>“I see, who would’ve thought that Crimson Magic Clansmen would have barcodes on their butts.”</p>

  <p>“Are the position of the barcodes fixed? Or are you the only person with a barcode on their butt, Megumin-san?”</p>

  <p>“Excuse me, could we please leave the matter of my butt aside? If not then I’ll be going.”</p>

  <p>The researchers quickly fell silent.</p>

  <p>“…I’ll continue then. As suggested by our clan’s name, every Crimson Magic Clansman are born with a pair of crimson eyes. Furthermore, we strongly prefer the colours black and red, and our personalities are more on the belligerent side. Since we were created for battle, you could say that we’re instinctively primed to get into fights.”</p>

  <p>The researchers loudly scribbled on their notepads. One of them raised her hand to speak.</p>

  <p>“Is the fact that Megumin-san’s panties are black also a result of this instinctual priming? Also, since your body is of the loli-type, that can’t be the only thing you’re ’overreaching’ for, is it?”</p>

  <p><em>[TL Note: 背伸び (Overreaching) can also stand for ’tip-toeing (to appear taller)‘]</em></p>

  <p>“We’re talking about instincts here, so could we please not talk about the colour of my underwear? I suppose it’s really about time for me to go home, isn’t it?”</p>

  <p>Just what kind of research were they doing here?</p>

  <p>That aside, questioning phase soon ended, and we moved onto the measurement of my magic power and physical abilities.</p>

  <p>“-As expected of a Crimson Magic Clansman, I’ve never seen such abnormal values for magic power…”</p>

  <p>“While those super powerful adventurers with peculiar names are certainly exceptions, these numbers are around their level aren’t they?”</p>

  <p>After measuring my magic power, the researchers began to make a fuss.</p>

  <p>Despite having such a high reserve of magic power, people were usually unimpressed, so this was a bit of a pleasant change.</p>

  <p>“Are there any more experiments or questions? If the reward is good, I won’t mind cooperating.” I called out in a good mood.</p>

  <p>One of the researchers murmured ’if that’s the case…’ and raised their hand.</p>

  <p>“I believe there’s a ’certain magic tool’ at the capital, would you be fine with testing it? The peculiar-named people brought it in, but we haven’t had a chance to test it until now, so I completely forgot about it.”</p>

  <p>“It’s a bit unsettling to be a test subject for an unused magic tool, but as long as it doesn’t cause any damage I don’t really mind…”</p>

  <p>“No, the tool does not damage to the body in the slightest. Remember how we were talking about this thing called a ’barcode’ earlier? From what I know, that magic tool is able to read the contents of a barcode.”</p>

  <p>I stopped moving to process the information.</p>

  <p>“Would you be fine with us ’beep’-ing the barcode on your butt, Megumin-san?”</p>

  <p>-Of course, I didn’t go the next day.</p>

  <hr/>

  <p><em>Notes:</em></p>
  
  <p>Crimson Magic Clansmen are born with the barcode on their bodies, in case there was a misinterpretation</p>
  
  <p>The ‘<em>beep</em>’ at the end is a literal beep, imitating the sound of a barcode reader.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
