<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Consulting with this Masked Devil! - Today As A Harem Consultant</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Consulting with this Masked Devil! - Today As A Harem Consultant</h1>

  <p>Fanfic</p>

  <p>Translator: yuNS</p>

  <hr/>

  <p>As Moi continued to operate as usual at the corner of the adventurer’s guild, Moi noticed a familiar man.</p>

  <p>“Yo Vanir, I want you to tell my fortune.”</p>

  <p>“Go away.”</p>

  <p>The man’s name is Satou Kazuma.</p>

  <p>As the devil whom sees through all, the only person whose thoughts Moi could not fathom were those of this man.</p>

  <p>“Hey, I’m a customer you know? In business, the customer is god right? So treat me like one.”</p>

  <p>“Since you asked Moi to treat you like a god, that means that you would like to have a taste of Moi Vanir-style death ray, yes?”</p>

  <p>Once Moi said that, the person from an alternate world cautiously retreated several steps from Moi.</p>

  <p>“Though thy art a good business partner, the same cannot be said of your other aspects. Why is it that thy must come bother Moi every time you have a problem? The only ones that are capable of making Moi - who art a devil - feel so foul are limited to that goddess and you, brat.”</p>

  <p>“Oi, don’t compare the benevolent Kazuma with that troublesome person. Hey I’m begging you, isn’t this already a fair deal? I mean, it’s not like I can’t pay up, so why am I the only one not allowed?”</p>

  <p>“It is because you always come to Moi to discuss some idiotic things. The last time you came here, you wanted to consult on ’Even though I live together with so many young girls, why is it that no one has ever snuck into my bed!? Why is it that there are no opportunities to peep on them changing!? Is this some kind of curse!?‘ amongst other foolish topics.”</p>

  <p>“I don’t really think that these topics are stupid…Hmm, I guess that it’s because this isn’t Japan, but an alternate world huh? The reason why nothing happens even though we live together, is simply because the common sense here is different from Japan. There’s no way around that hm… Well, let’s just leave this topic there for now.”</p>

  <p>As the person from the alternate world continued to ramble on, he leaned his head towards Moi, and said with a soft voice:</p>

  <p>“I want you to see how many pretty girls in this town have feelings for me.”</p>

  <p>“Go away.”</p>

  <p>The man from an alternate world had come - once again - to discuss some idiotic things. I flicked my hand and gestured for him to leave.</p>

  <p>“Wait, what? Are you just trying to make my life hard!? Didn’t I already say that I would pay you!?”</p>

  <p>“You’re goddamned annoying you little brat! You’re a brat that would use Moi powers to do something so unfathomably pointless! There’s not a single lady out there that would like someone of the likes of you!”</p>

  <p>“Are you kidding me!? How can there be not a single girl out there that likes me!? I am the hero that routed several demon king army generals, the savior of this town, the great adventurer Kazuma-san you know!? It wouldn’t even be strange if someone asked me for my signature!”</p>

  <p>“Moi told you already! A queer girl like that doesn’t exist in this world! Now hurry up and leave, you’re obstructing Moi from doing business!”</p>

  <p>Even though Moi had told this man from an alternate world the truth, he refused to accept Moi answer, and sat down beside Moi.</p>

  <p>Then, a young female customer - unrelated to this mess - arrived at Moi table.</p>

  <p>“Um, I have something I’m bothered about that I came to consult on…”</p>

  <p>“Hmpf, no matter what problem you have, Moi will do Moi best to solve it immediately. The fee for this consultation will be determined by how complicated your problem is. Are Moi terms agreeable?”</p>

  <p>Hearing Moi inquiry, the customer sitting across the table nodded her head.</p>

  <p>“Actually… Recently my chest has been aching a little… There’s nothing during the day, but at night it feels like something is pressing down on my chest…”</p>

  <p>“It’s probably love huh~~”</p>

  <p>“Stop messing around you little brat! Just go to the side over there and stay put!”</p>

  <p>Moi dismissed the man from an alternate world - who nonchalantly chipped into the conversation - and used Moi power to see through everything about the customer.</p>

  <p>“…Hmpf, thy mother-in-law that passed away last month is coming to thy home every night to trouble thy. When thy art fast asleep, she will jump around on thy chest…”</p>

  <p>“That woman, she won’t leave me alone even though she’s dead!? Please teach me some way to repel evil spirits!”</p>

  <p>Moi handed a slip of paper to the enraged customer.</p>

  <p>“Thy should go to the address written on the memo and look for ’Wiz’s Magic Item Shop’. That store sells a type of holy water named ’Goddess’ Juice’. If you sprinkle it around your home, the evil spirit will be purified, and will peacefully ascend to heaven.”</p>

  <p>“I got it! Here’s some extra as thanks for your help, please take it! This time I’ll settle it with that wench once and for all!”</p>

  <p>The lady slammed the money onto the table, and hurriedly ran out of the adventurer’s guild. True to her word, the value of the money was greater than the standard consultation fee.</p>

  <p>The man from an alternate world that saw the situation unfold, opened his mouth and said:</p>

  <p>“Oi, didn’t you just easily solve that person’s problem? So why won’t you even try to solve mine? Is it because you’ll only try hard when the customer is female?”</p>

  <p>“So you’re still here you annoying little brat. If you actually have something proper to discuss, then Moi shall properly assist you. So go and find some earnest problems, and come back to find Moi. If you don’t have any then go away. Moi has to serve the next customer.”</p>

  <p>Yes, Moi consultation center was about to enter its prime-time.</p>

  <p>As the person from an alternate world moved to the back of the line, behind several of Moi more respectable customers.</p>

  <p>“Oi wait a second. Even I have some normal problems I want to discuss. I was just joking around earlier, so sorry about that. Anyway, I won’t try to be cheap, so help me solve my problem alright?”</p>

  <p>As he said that, the man from an alternate world showed an earnest expression.</p>

  <p>Since this brat was always involved in some kind of trouble, could it be that he encountered some problem again?</p>

  <p>Moi leaned forward, and asked seriously:</p>

  <p>“…What trouble do you have?”</p>

  <p>“It doesn’t matter if they’re a girl or a boy, the people around me are strange no matter what. So I’m kinda troubled by this.”</p>

  <p>“Go away.”</p>

  <p>As Moi gave moi final judgement, the man from an alternate world’s face seemed to change colour.</p>

  <p>“What why! Isn’t this an actual earnest problem already!? You’re just useless when the problem actually matters!”</p>

  <p>“Since you’re always asking Moi about useless things, why don’t Moi cast a curse that makes mushrooms grow on your rear!? Maybe you will have a real problem then!”</p>

  <p>The man from an alternate world’s body trembled, and he swiftly backed away from Moi.</p>

  <p>Once he felt that he was safe with the distance between us, he turned back and shouted:</p>

  <p>“I-di-ot! I-di-ot! I said that I was surrounded by strange people, but the strangest person is actually you! I’m gonna spread bad rumours about your consulting center till it closes, so know y-! Yo, I’m just joking, I’m just joking dude! Don’t come any closer!”</p>

  <p>With all Moi might, Moi chased after the man who ran away after spouting such dastardly lines.</p>

  <p>That little brat is perhaps the strangest man in this town.</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>