<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Today, I Win Again!</title>
</head>

<body>

  <h1>Today, I Win Again!</h1>

  <p>Translator: Cannongerbil</p>

  <p>Editors: Striker</p>

  <p>Occurrence: After Volume 17</p>

  <p><i>[So this is the short story that has Konosuba fans in Japan all a flutter. I’m releasing this early because I know a lot of people have been dying to know what exactly it contains, and also as compensation for the fact that Volume 17 probably won’t be ready for another month or two. I hope this story can tide everyone over until then.</i></p>

  <p><i>Also, this short story technically takes place after Volume 17. It doesn’t spoil anything and can be enjoyed without knowledge of its events, but just keep that in mind if you are a stickler for this sort of stuff.</i></p>

  <p><i>Well, without further ado, I hope you enjoy this little snippet.]</i></p>

  <hr/>

  <p>… I called out to Kazuma who was laying on the sofa, casually patting Chomusuke laying on his lap.</p>

  <p>“Kazuma, if you are free, can you go out with me for a bit?”</p>

  <p>Upon hearing that, Kazuma looked up at me and said,</p>

  <p>“If you want to do your daily routine, wait ’till after we have lunch. If you need someone to be a witness for some duel you’re about to pick with someone, get Aqua who can use recovery magic. If you want me to follow you because something you want just came out, then go get Darkness.”</p>

  <p>“That’s not it at all! Just what kind of person do you think I am!?”</p>

  <p>Those seem vaguely familiar somehow, but if I admit it, I lose.</p>

  <p>And the strongest Crimson Demon can’t possibly be defeated.</p>

  <p>“Do you want to go on a date… You don’t need to jump up like that! You gave Chomusuke quite a shock!”</p>

  <p>-As we wandered around the town of Axel, Kazuma tilted his head and said,</p>

  <p>“… Say, Megumin, you invited me on a date, right?”</p>

  <p>“That’s right. Doesn’t it feel very much like a date when we walk together like this?”</p>

  <p>Kazuma had a frown on his face for a while now, though I have no idea what he’s so unhappy about.</p>

  <p>“Yeah, but, those people who have been sneaking around behind us all this time are your classmates, right? You only invited me out to show off in front of them, right?”</p>

  <p>Indeed, just as Kazuma said, three of my classmates have been following me.</p>

  <p>One of them is my rival, Yunyun.</p>

  <p>The other two must be Funikura and Dondonka, or something like that.</p>

  <p>I have no idea why they are following us. Maybe they just have too much free time on their hands.</p>

  <p>“Well, it’s true that I want to assert my dominance over those sore losers who are at the age where they should be seeking a boyfriend, but it’s also true that I do genuinely want to go on a date with you, Kazuma.”</p>

  <p>When I told Kazuma my honest feelings, he blushed red and started acting suspiciously.</p>

  <p>“O-oh… I see… Well, I’m fine with that…”</p>

  <p>Seeing Kazuma’s awkward behaviour, the people behind me suddenly erupted in muffled shrieks and whispers.</p>

  <p>I’m sure those three are reaching the peak of their excitement.</p>

  <p>Then, Kazuma opened his mouth like he just remembered something.</p>

  <p>“You know, the dates I know consist of much more flirting. Like walking around with our hands intertwined, or kissing whenever our eyes meet.”</p>

  <p>“I can understand holding hands, but if we start kissing in the middle of the street, the other adventurers will tease us, you know? …And, doing such things in front of my classmates is embarrassing…”</p>

  <p>I casually held his arm as I said that, and once again muffled screams came from behind me.</p>

  <p>I really wish they’d stop stalking me and go somewhere else to play.</p>

  <p>Kazuma seems to have heard them too, and gave me a confident smile.</p>

  <p>“Heh… Then, today, let’s show your classmates what you look like after ascending the stairway of adulthood. Leave it to me, I know a thing or two about such things.”</p>

  <p>“Kazuma, whenever you get full of yourself like this, you always mess up, so don’t do anything unnecessary.”</p>

  <p>He’ll definitely get full of himself, so I had to hammer home what not to do.</p>

  <p>Those three will probably go home in tears after seeing us flirt with each other.</p>

  <p>So, once they leave—</p>

  <p>“… Wait, did you just say ’Doing such things in front of my classmates’? That means…”</p>

  <p>“Yes, that’s exactly what you think it means! Come on, let’s get on with our date already!”</p>

  <p>He’s as blunt and lacking in tact as ever, but I guess that’s part of him that I fell in love with.</p>

  <p>Looking down in order to hide my blushing face, I pulled on Kazuma’s hand and tried to leave—</p>

  <p>“… It’s only been a short time since I last saw you, but you’ve really changed since then…”</p>

  <p>Only for my path to be blocked by a blushing Funikura.</p>

  <p>“What are you trying to do, Funikura? Are you not satisfied with just stalking, so now you want to get in the way too!?”</p>

  <p>“I’m Funifura! Remember my name already! And I’m not stalking you for the sake of it… I came here to deliver a letter, and I can’t stand to watch you be lovey-dovey with him any more…”</p>

  <p>Funifura pushed a letter into my hands while averting her blushing face.</p>

  <p>“This is a letter from my parents and Komekko… S-Sorry, I thought you were just here to spy on me, so I tried my best to put on a show…”</p>

  <p>“Y-Yunyun said that the two of you really are an item now, but I still don’t believe it! There’s no way you who had shown absolutely no interest in love could’ve beaten me…”</p>

  <p>I’m no longer a child who places such importance on winning and losing.</p>

  <p>Honestly, I really couldn’t care less about Funifura and the others anymore, so I really wish they’d hurry up and go…</p>

  <p>“Hey, enough about that already. Let’s be alone together so we can make out!”</p>

  <p>“Why do you have to open your mouth at a time like this!? Okay, fine, I get it. Let’s go back home!”</p>

  <p>At Kazuma’s words, I hastily snatched the letter from Funifura’s hands to hide my impatience.</p>

  <p>It’s fine, it’s not embarrassing at all.</p>

  <p>If anything, I want them to spread this news to the other people back at the village.</p>

  <p>This would put an end to my rivalry with Yunyun and strike a final blow to Funifura, who had been making fun of me for so long…!</p>

  <p>Funifura, who had constantly poked fun at me and Yunyun about matters of romance back when we were classmates, seemed to finally admit defeat and broke into tears—</p>

  <p>“Uwaaaaah! I didn’t want to believe it, but it’s just as Yunyun said, the two of you really are an item now! You two are definitely already busy making babies!”</p>

  <p>“W-W-W-We haven’t gone that far yet! Wait! Please don’t spread false rumours about me!”</p>

  <p>Funifura took off running after leaving that ridiculous line, and I chased after her—</p>

  <hr/>

</body>

</html>
